# KB\#0248 Deploy using the latest successful build image by tagging Pipelines builds as "latest" in Pipelines for Containers

**Created at:** 2018-03-26T22:35:39Z

**Updated at:** 2020-01-07T00:45:59Z

Puppet Pipelines reached end of life on 2020-01-31. 

You can deploy builds using the latest successful build image instead of
using a specific build number by tagging Pipelines builds as `latest`.

### Version and installation information

**Product:** Pipelines for Containers  
**Version:** All  
**Installation type:** SaaS and on premises

### Solution

To tag Pipelines builds as `latest`, add `latest` to the build and
deployment configuration for each container using the steps below.

#### **Step one: Edit the build configuration**

Add the `latest` tag to your build configuration using the following
steps.

1.  In your project, under **Containers**, click on the **Build
    Instructions** (tool) icon for the container you'd like to make
    changes to.

2.  Under **build**, edit the `docker login` command to remove `-e
    $DISTELLI_DOCKER_EMAIL`. This parameter is no longer recognized and
    might cause `docker login` to crash.

3.  Under **build**, copy the last two commands (`docker tag` and
    `docker push`) and paste them to **afterSuccess**.

4.  To tag the build image, edit **afterSuccess** and add the following:
    
        echo "Tagging build $DISTELLI_BUILDNUM as latest"
        docker tag "$DISTELLI_DOCKER_REPO" "$DISTELLI_DOCKER_REPO:latest"
        docker push "$DISTELLI_DOCKER_REPO:latest"

5.  Click **Save**.

6.  Build the image.

7.  Verify that the image has a build number and is tagged with
    `latest`.

#### **Step two: Edit the deployment configuration**

Add the `latest` tag to your deployment configuration using the
following steps.

1.  In your project, to to the right of your last successful deployment,
    click on the Deploy (rocket) icon, then click YAML.

2.  Change the YAML's image line from
    
        'image: <GIT HOST USER NAME/CONTAINER> : <BUILD NUBMBER>'
    
    to
    
        'image: <GIT HOST USER NAME/CONTAINER> : latest'

Your deployments are now configured to use the latest successfully build
image.
