# Add a module

Modules are self-contained, shareable bundles of code and data. Each module manages a specific task in your infrastructure, like installing and configuring a piece of software. You can write your own modules or download pre-built modules from the Forge. While you can use any module available on the Forge, PE customers can take advantage of supported modules. These modules are designed to make common services easier, and are tested and maintained by Puppet. A lot of your infrastructure will be supported by modules, so it is important to learn how to install, build, and use them.

## Install the `IIS` module

To get you started working with modules, install the `puppetlabs/iis` module, which automates installing, configuring, and managing IIS services.

### Before you begin

These instructions assume you've installed PE and at least one Windows agent node.

### About this task

### Procedure

1.  Go to the [IIS module in the Forge](https://forge.puppet.com/puppetlabs/iis).

2.  Follow the instructions in the **r10k or Code Manager** drop down to add the module declaration to your Puppetfile.

    If you don’t specify options, Code Manager installs the latest version and does not update it automatically. To always have the latest version installed, specify `:latest` and it will update automatically when a new version is released. To install a specific version of the module that does not update automatically, specify the version number as a string.

    For example, to install version 7.0.0 of the IIS module that will not update, and its dependencies, use the following code:

    ```
    mod 'puppetlabs/iis, '7.0.0'
    mod ‘puppetlabs/pwshlib’, ‘0.4.0’
    ```

    The `puppetlabs/pwshlib` module is a dependency of the IIS module. You can see the dependencies for each module by clicking the **Dependencies** tab on a [module’s Forge page](https://forge.puppet.com/puppetlabs/iis/dependencies).

3.  SSH into your master and deploy code running the `puppet-code deploy --all` command.


### Result:

You have just installed a Puppet module!

