# KB\#0235 Troubleshooting deployments in Pipelines for Applications

**Created at:** 2018-02-15T23:30:10Z

**Updated at:** 2020-01-07T00:48:16Z

Puppet Pipelines reached end of life on 2020-01-31. 

This article includes best practices, tips, and tricks for
troubleshooting failed deployments and conveys an understanding of
Pipelines deployment steps and structure.

This article is specific to deployments done in Pipelines for
Applications. This does not cover Kubernetes deployments created with
Pipelines for Containers.

This article assumes the reader has knowledge of navigating \*nix
operating systems.

Let's take a look at the best way to approach troubleshooting deployment
issues.

**Table of contents**

  - [Log files](#log-files)
  - [Log debugging with Pipelines
    manifest](#log-debugging-with-pipelines-manifest)
  - [Pipelines deployment directory
    structure](#pipelines-deployment-directory-structure)
  - [Change to the distelli user](#change-to-the-distelli-user)
  - [Check environment variables](#check-environment-variables)
  - [`distelli-manifest.yml` phase
    files](#distelli-manifest.yml-phase-files)
  - [Inspecting deployment steps](#inspecting-deployment-steps)
  - [The `distelli-manifest.yml` exec](#the-distelli-manifest.yml-exec)
  - [Which step occurs in which
    directory](#which-step-occurs-in-which-directory)

**Additional resources**

  - Our library of example deployment tutorials is steadily growing. You
    can find them by visiting the [Pipelines for Applications docs
    site](https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/master/pipelines-for-applications/enterprise) and
    selecting **Deployments** from the menu on the left.
  - Learn more about manifests from our [library of example
    manifests](https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/master/pipelines-for-applications/enterprise/manifest.md#manifest-examples).
  - A great reference for bash scripting can be found
    [here](http://www.tldp.org/LDP/abs/html/).
  - If you have a Puppet Support account, you can open a ticket with us.
    Learn more about [Puppet Products](https://puppet.com/products) and
    [Support](https://puppet.com/support-services/customer-support).

## Log files

When deploying fails you should first look at the log files. Logs are
captured during each phase of deployment.

The logs are easily viewed in the Pipelines web UI. Execute the
following steps to see the logs:

1.  Log into your Pipelines account.

2.  Navigate to the application where the deployment failed.

3.  Click the Failed **Deploy** link in the app history timeline.
    
    ![Failed deploy
    screenshot](https://support.puppet.com/hc/article_attachments/360001146333/tsd-deploy-flag.png)  
    Failed Deploy

You will find yourself at the deployment details screen. For each server
in the deployment there will be a **Logs** button. Click this to see the
logs. These are the deployment manifest execution logs.

  - PreInstall
  - Install
  - PostInstall
  - PreStart
  - Start
  - PostStart
  - PreTerminate
  - Terminate
  - PostTerminate
  - PreRestart
  - PostRestart

You can find more logging in the `stdout` log. Click the log selector to
select `stdout`.

In the `stdout` log the following phase is logged:

  - Exec

## Log debugging with Pipelines manifest

It is helpful to include `echo` statements in your
`distelli-manifest.yml` to quickly identify which step in which phase
you are in while viewing the logs. Here is an example Pipelines manifest
file with echo statements:

**Note:** Some sections do not log.

    jdoe/SimpleNodeApp:
      PkgInclude:
        # This section does not log
        - server.js
      PkgExclude:
        # This section does not log
        - node_modules/
      PreInstall:
        - echo "Distelli PreInstall Starting."
        # Check to see if node is already installed
        - if [ -a /usr/local/bin/node ]; then
        #   node is already installed
        -   echo "node exists"
        - else
        #   Install node from nodejs.org
        -   echo "node does not exist. Installing..."
        -   wget http://nodejs.org/dist/v0.12.2/node-v0.12.2-linux-x64.tar.gz
        -   sudo tar -C /usr/local --strip-components 1 -zxvf node-v0.12.2-linux-x64.tar.gz
        - fi
        - echo "Distelli PreInstall Complete."
      PostInstall:
        - echo "Distelli PostInstall Starting."
        - sudo npm config set loglevel verbose
        - echo "Distelli PostInstall Complete."
      Exec:
        # You should not use echo in the Exec: section
        - node server.js

Now when you view the logs you can easily identify which step of which
phase an issue may have occurred in.

Look in the log for errors. There typically is some indication of what
may have failed. Also look in the stdout to see why the application may
have failed to execute.

Some other commands that may be helpful to include in a
`distelli-manifest.yml` for troubleshooting might be:

  - `pwd` - Show the present working directory the deployment phase is
    in.
  - `env` - Show the current environment variables during the deployment
    phase.
  - `set`- Show the current environment variables and aliases during the
    deployment phase.
  - `df` - Show the current free disk space.
  - `netstat -plnt` - Show the current TCP ports being listened to.

You can include these commands in the `distelli-manifest.yml` phases.
For example:

    jdoe/SimpleJavaApp:
      Env:
        - CLASSPATH: 'target/*:lib/*'
        - JAVA_HOME: "/usr/local/jre"
        - JVM_ARGS: '"-Duser.timezone=UTC -Xmx128M -Xms128M"'
        - PORT: "8080"
        - ARGS: "$PORT"
      PreInstall:
        - echo "Starting PreInstall Section"
        - pwd
        - env
        - echo "End PreInstall Section"
      PostInstall:
        - echo "Starting PostInstall Section"
        - pwd
        - env
        - echo "------------------------------"
        - netstat -plnt
        - echo "------------------------------"
        - echo "End PostInstall Section"
      Exec:
        - exec $JAVA_HOME/bin/java -cp $CLASSPATH $JVM_ARGS com.example.app.SimpleJavaApp $ARGS
      PkgInclude:
        - target/*.jar
        - lib/*.jar

The above steps can assist with troubleshooting a deployment problem by
adding debugging to the Pipelines manifest and looking at the logs.

Learn more about manifests from our [library of example
manifests](https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/master/pipelines-for-applications/enterprise/manifest.md#manifest-examples).

## Pipelines deployment directory structure

When you install the Pipelines agent a directory structure is built to
accommodate deployments. It is helpful to understand the structure on
the build server when troubleshooting. This structure sits at the root
in a directory called `distelli` owned by the user and group `distelli`.

With an application called `SimplePHPApp` deployed to an environment
called `TEST_PHP`, the directory structure will look similar to this:

``` 
 /distelli
  ├── _agent
  │   ├── agent_data.yml
  │   ├── agent-stdout.log
  │   ├── distelli-agent.log
  │   ├── dtk
  │   │   └──
  │   ├── dtk-stdout.log
  │   ├── logs
  │   │   └──
  │   ├── manifests
  │   │   └──
  │   ├── server-id.yml
  │   └── supervisor
  │       ├── supervisord.conf
  │       └── supervisord.log
  ├── apps
  │   └──
  ├── _apps
  │   └── SimplePHPApp.TEST_PHP.d-e6kksc38lmed3764772c
  │       ├── bin
  │       │   ├── distelli-env.sh
  │       │   ├── distelli-preinstall.sh
  │       │   └── distelli-run.sh
  │       └── simpleapp.php
  ├── .dtk
  │   ├── agent.sock
  │   ├── app_state.secret
  │   ├── app_state.sqlite
  │   ├── cli_state.sqlite
  │   └── supervisor.sock
  ├── envs
  │   └── TEST_PHP
  │       ├── bin -> /distelli/_apps/SimplePHPApp.TEST_PHP.d-e6kksc38lmed3764772c/bin
  │       ├── distelli-stdout.log
  │       └── simpleapp.php -> /distelli/_apps/SimplePHPApp.TEST_PHP.d-e6kksc38lmed3764772c/simpleapp.php
  ├── logs
  │   ├── agent.log
  │   ├── deployment
  │   │   └── d-e6kksc38lmed3764772c.log
  │   ├── install.log
  │   ├── supervise.log
  │   └── tasks
  │       └──
  ├── _packages
  │   └──
  └── tasks
      └──
```

On Windows the Pipelines root directory can be found at:

    %SYSTEMROOT%\distelli

Let’s first look at the naming structure that is created when you
deploy. You can see the below naming included in several places in the
directory hierarchy above.

``` 
 SimplePHPApp.TEST_PHP.d-e6kksc38lmed3764772c
|            |        |                      |
|application |  env   |    deployment ID     |
```

Remember, this example directory structure is based on deploying one
application called `SimplePHPApp` to environment `TEST_PHP`.

In this scenario, the Pipelines specific environment variable
`DISTELLI_INSTALLHOME` is the below directory. It is this directory
where your application release is unbundled during the Install phase.

    /distelli/_apps/SimplePHPApp.TEST_PHP.d-e6kksc38lmed3764772c

The Pipelines specific environment variable `DISTELLI_APPHOME` is below.
It is here that a symlink to the contents of the above directory is
created after PostInstall.

    /distelli/env/TEST_PHP

For more information on deployment environment variables see the
[Environment variables
reference](https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/master/pipelines-for-applications/enterprise/environment-variable.md)
guide.

When doing a deployment the `distelli-manifest.yml` shell scripts will
be here in the `bin` directory:

    /distelli/_apps/SimplePHPApp.TEST_PHP.d-e6kksc38lmed3764772c/bin

## Change to the `distelli` user

You can switch your user to the `distelli` user with the following
command:

    sudo su - distelli

This will cause you to become user `distelli` so that when you execute
any deployment scripts, you will be executing them with the same user
and permissions that are used when Pipelines does the deploy; and you
can see the exact behavior.

It is important to have the same PATH as when the `distelli` user
deploys, do the following:

    export PATH=$(getconf PATH)
    echo $PATH

For more information on the Agent PATH, see [Agent deploy
path](https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/master/pipelines-for-applications/enterprise/cli-command.md#extending-agent-deploy-path).

## Check environment variables

The file below holds the script that initializes the deployment
environment variables. For more information on using environment
variables see the [Environment variables reference
guide](https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/master/pipelines-for-applications/enterprise/environment-variable.md).

    /distelli/_apps/SimplePHPApp.TEST_PHP.d-e6kksc38lmed3764772c/bin/distelli-env.sh

Using the `cat` command you can look at the contents of this file and
the environment variables used for this applications deployment.

    $ cat distelli-env.sh

For example:

    export DISTELLI_APPNAME=SimplePHPApp
    export DISTELLI_INSTALLHOME=/distelli/_apps/SimplePHPApp.TEST_PHP.d-e6kksc38lmed3764772c
    export DISTELLI_APPHOME=/distelli/envs/TEST_PHP
    # Variable Injected from Manifest
    export PORT=8006

When troubleshooting it is helpful to `source` the `distelli-env.sh`
file to your environment so that the environment variables are populated
in your shell:

    $ source bin/distelli-env.sh

> **Note:** When Pipelines for Applications runs the various scripts
> `getconf PATH` is called. This is important to note as the PATH may
> not be what you expect. For more info, see [Agent deploy
> path](https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/master/pipelines-for-applications/enterprise/cli-command.md#deploy-path).

## `distelli-manifest.yml` phase files

Each phase of the deployment, for example PreInstall, PostInstall, Run
(Exec), Restart, Terminate, and others will have an individual bash
shell script (or batch on Windows) file in:

    /distelli/_apps/SimplePHPApp.TEST_PHP.d-e6kksc38lmed3764772c/bin/

The naming format for these files is:

    distelli-MANIFESTSECTION.sh

> **Note:** This naming format is true except for the **Exec** section
> which is instead **run**.

For example:

    distelli-preinstall.sh
    distelli-install.sh
    distelli-postinstall.sh
    distelli-run.sh <Exec phase
    distelli-preterminate.sh
    distelli-start.sh
    
    …and more

## Inspecting deployment steps

You can view and execute the various deployment phase scripts manually.
It is suggested that if you do run a script, ensure you have switched to
[user distelli](#change-to-the-distelli-user). For example:

    $ cat bin/distelli-preinstall.sh
    export DISTELLI_APPNAME=SimplePHPApp
    export DISTELLI_INSTALLHOME=/distelli/_apps/SimplePHPApp.TEST_PHP.d-e6kksc38lmed3764772c
    export DISTELLI_APPHOME=/distelli/envs/TEST_PHP
    set -e
    # Variable Injected from Manifest
    export PORT=8006
    sudo apt-get -y install php5-cli

Note that Pipelines for Applications inserts the `set -e` option. This
causes the entire script to exit on any single failure. It may be
helpful in troubleshooting to add an option:

  - `set +e` - Revert the `set -e` behavior so that a single failure
    does not cause the entire script to end
  - `set -e` - Change the behavior back to Distelli default
  - `set -x` - Bash will provide debugging information on commands being
    executed
  - `set +x` - Turn off bash debugging

An alternative may be to use the `|| true` at the end of a command that
may fail. Here is an example:

    eval "$(~/.rbenv/bin/rbenv init -) || true"

## The `distelli-manifest.yml` exec

Some notes regarding the `Exec:` section in the `distelli-manifest.yml`
file. Here is an example:

``` 
  Exec:
    - echo "Distelli Exec Starting."
    - node server.js
```

The last line of this section will be the process that is monitored by
Pipelines for Applications. In the above example, the `node server.js`
process will be monitored. That is why I did not include a final echo
statement in this section.

On Windows, the `Exec:` section should only have 1 line (entry).

## Which step occurs in which directory

    DISTELLI_INSTALLHOME
    /distelli/_apps/SimplePHPApp.TEST_PHP.d-e6kksc38lmed3764772c/

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>PreInstall</p></td>
<td><p><code>bin/distelli-preinstall.sh</code></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Install</p></td>
<td><p><code>bin/distelli-install.sh</code></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>PostInstall</p></td>
<td><p><code>bin/distelli-postinstall.sh</code></p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

    DISTELLI_APPHOME
    /distelli/envs/TEST_PHP/

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Exec</p></td>
<td><p><code>bin/distelli-run.sh</code></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>PreStart</p></td>
<td><p><code>bin/distell-prestart.sh</code></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Start</p></td>
<td><p><code>bin/distelli-start.sh</code></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>PostStart</p></td>
<td><p><code>bin/distelli-poststart.sh</code></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>PreTerminate</p></td>
<td><p><code>distelli-preterminate.sh</code></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Terminate</p></td>
<td><p><code>distelli-terminate.sh</code></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>PostTerminate</p></td>
<td><p><code>distelli-postterminate.sh</code></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>PreRestart</p></td>
<td><p><code>distelli-prerestart.sh</code></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>PostRestart</p></td>
<td><p><code>distelli-postrestart.sh</code></p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
