# KB\#0242 Pipelines for Applications deployment manifest changes are not updated in my release during deployment

**Created at:** 2018-03-15T00:11:21Z

**Updated at:** 2020-01-07T00:47:15Z

Puppet Pipelines reached end of life on 2020-01-31. 

I changed my deployment manifest in the web UI, saved it, and deployed
it. In the deployment log, I can see that changes to my manifest changes
aren’t in my release. What happened?

### Version and installation information

**Product:** Pipelines for Applications

### Solution

In the web UI, when you update the build manifest, you have the option
to save and build the release by clicking **Save and Rebuild**, ensuring
that changes made to that manifest are in your next release. However,
when you change and save the the deployment manifest, you must save and
build the release as separate steps to ensure that deployment manifest
changes are included in your next deployment.

To ensure that your deployment manifest changes are included:

1.  Make changes to deployment manifest sections.

2.  Save changes to the deployment manifest by clicking **Save
    Manifest**.

3.  To build the application, in the upper right corner of the page,
    click the hammer (build) button.

If you [move your manifests into a code
repository](https://support.puppet.com/hc/en-us/articles/360001981234)
and [have autobuild
enabled](https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/master/pipelines-for-applications/enterprise/build.md#enable-auto-build),
you can combine both steps. When manifest changes are committed to your
repository, it will trigger a package build. See an example in our
[tutorial on automating the installation and configuration of the
Bugzilla application on your
server](https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/master/pipelines-for-applications/enterprise/application-bugzilla.md).
