# KB\#0245 Deployment manifests: Using Exec versus Start in Pipelines for Applications

**Created at:** 2018-03-23T16:11:33Z

**Updated at:** 2020-01-07T00:46:41Z

Puppet Pipelines reached end of life on 2020-01-31. 

You can start the processes in your application with either the Exec
section or the Start section of the [deployment
manifest](https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/master/pipelines-for-applications/enterprise/manifest.md),
but not both. Which one should you use?

### Version and installation information

**Product:** Pipelines for Applications

### Solution

Choose Exec or Start based on what kind of processes your application is
starting.

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td> </td>
<td>The Exec section</td>
<td>The Start section</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Type of application</td>
<td>Foreground, short lived</td>
<td>Background, long lived</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Monitored by the Pipelines agent?</td>
<td>Yes</td>
<td>No</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Will it be restarted if stopped?</td>
<td>Yes</td>
<td>No</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

**Starting short lived, foreground processes**

Use the Exec section for short lived, foreground processes, such as a
Node.js application. A process started by this section is monitored by
the Pipelines agent, and when it is terminated by anything other than
the Pipelines agent, it is restarted by the agent.

When the Exec section is used to start a background process, the process
is forked in the background, the Pipelines agent cannot monitor it, and
deployment fails.

**Starting long lived, background processes**

The Start section is for long lived, background processes, such as an
apache application. A process started by this section is not monitored
by the Pipelines agent, and when it is terminated by anything other than
the Pipelines agent, it is not restarted.

**Additional information**

  - [Help writing manifests in Pipelines for Applications: Manifest
    structure and
    examples](https://support.puppet.com/hc/en-us/articles/360000802394)

  - [Manifest
    documentation](https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/master/pipelines-for-applications/enterprise/manifest.md)

  - [Exec section
    documentation](https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/master/pipelines-for-applications/enterprise/manifest-deploy.md#exec)

  - [Start section
    documentation](https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/master/pipelines-for-applications/enterprise/manifest-deploy.md#start)
