---
layout: default
title: "PE 2015.2 » Code Management with r10k » Getting To Know r10k"
subtitle: "Getting To Know r10k"
canonical: "/pe/latest/r10k.html"
description: "About r10k, a tool for managing code with Puppet."
---

[direnv]: /puppet/latest/reference/environments.html
[install_prep]: ./r10k_install_prep.html
[config_answers]: ./r10k_config_answers.html
[config_console]: ./r10k_config_console.html
[puppetfile]: ./r10k_puppetfile.html
[run]: ./r10k_run.html
[reference]: ./r10k_reference.html

R10k does two simple but valuable things. First, it installs Puppet modules using an authoritative, standalone list ([Puppetfile](#puppetfile)) that you create for it. Second, r10k creates and manages [directory environments][direnv] based on the branches in your Git repository.

## r10k Basics

The primary purpose and benefit of r10k is that it provides a localized place in Puppet for you to manage the configuration of various environments (such as production, development, or testing), including what specific versions of modules are in each of your environments, based on code in branches of one or more Git repositories. R10k accomplishes this by seamlessly connecting the code in your Git repository's branches with the Puppet environments it creates based on those branches. So the work you do in Git is reflected in your Puppet configuration!

In PE 2015.2, r10k comes built-in. The easiest way to set up r10k is to provide information during your installation; r10k is then configured by the answer file. Alternatively, you can create a more complex configuration in the PE console. You'll also create a [Puppetfile](#puppetfile) for [managing][puppetfile] your modules, and [run][run] r10k on the command line.

### Puppetfile

Puppetfiles are text files, written in a Ruby-based DSL, that specify a list of modules to install, what version of those modules to install, and where to fetch the modules from. R10k can use a Puppetfile to install a set of Puppet modules for local development, or you can use Puppetfiles with r10k environment deployments to install additional modules into a given environment.


## Getting Started with r10k

Managing environments with r10k generally entails these steps:

* [Prepare for r10k installation][install_prep].
* Configure r10k, either via:
  * The [answers file][config_answers] in a clean PE installation.
  * The [PE console][config_console].
* [Set up your modules in the Puppetfile][puppetfile].
* [Run r10k to deploy your environments and modules][run].

We've also included a [reference][reference] of r10k subcommands.
