# Remove the Puppet PC1 repository to resolve an agent installation failing with error 22 for Puppet Enterprise 2016.x - 2017.1.x
<p>I'm trying to install an agent via curl, and it's failing with an error 22. How do I resolve it?</p>
<h3 id="error-messages-and-logs">Error messages and logs</h3>
<p><code>curl -k https://&lt;PUPPET MASTER HOSTNAME&gt;:8140/packages/current/install.bash | sudo bash</code></p>
<p><code>PYCURL ERROR 22 ...</code></p>
<p>When the open source Puppet PC1 repository is installed on your Puppet Enterprise master, a version of the <code>puppet-agent</code> package that is more recent than the PE version for your deployment might be installed on your master. When Puppet runs on the master, it tries to download files required for installing agents using a URL based on the open source agent version number. Since that version number doesn't exist for PE, downloading files to install the agent fails, and installing the agent via curl also fails.</p>
<h3 id="version-and-installation-information">Version and installation information</h3>
<p><strong>PE version:</strong> 2016.x, 2017.x<br> <strong>OS:</strong> RHEL</p>
<p><strong>Note:</strong> To use this solution with Ubuntu, modify the instructions to use <code>apt</code> and <code>deb</code> (instead of <code>yum</code> and <code>rpm</code>).</p>
<h3 id="solution">Solution</h3>
<p>Complete all steps on the master.</p>
<h4 id="verify-that-the-pc1-repository-is-causing-your-agent-installation-issues.">Verify that the PC1 repository is causing your agent installation issues.</h4>
<p>Verify that the PC1 repository is installed and that the <code>puppet-agent</code> package was installed from the PC1 repository.</p>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>
<p>Verify that the PC1 repository is installed. List the repositories:</p>
<p><code>yum repolist</code></p>
<pre><code>[root@pe-master ~]#  yum repolist
Loaded plugins: fastestmirror
Loading mirror speeds from cached hostfile
repo id                                           repo name                                                                                                                      status
pe_repo                                           Puppet Labs PE Packages 7 - x86_64                                                                                              24
puppet_enterprise                                 PuppetLabs PE Packages 7 - x86_64                                                                                               24
puppetlabs-pc1/x86_64                             Puppet Labs PC1 Repository el 7 - x86_64                                                                                       116
repolist: 164</code></pre>
</li>
<li>
<p>Verify that the <code>puppet-agent</code> package was installed by the PC1 repo by listing packages and the repo that each package was installed from. Note the mix of <code>puppet_enterprise</code> and <code>puppetlabs-pc1</code> (open source) repositories.</p>
<p><code>yum list installed | grep puppet | grep -v</code>.</p>
<pre><code>[root@pe-master puppetlabs]#  yum list installed | grep puppet | grep -v @puppet_enterprise
puppet-agent.x86_64                  1.9.3-1.el7              @puppetlabs-pc1
puppetlabs-release-pc1.noarch        1.1.0-5.el7              installed

[root@pe-master ~]# yum list installed | grep @puppet_enterprise
pe-activemq.noarch                   5.14.3-1.pe.el7          @puppet_enterprise
pe-bundler.noarch                    1.8.2-6.pe.el7           @puppet_enterprise
pe-client-tools.x86_64               16.4.1-1.el7             @puppet_enterprise
pe-console-services.noarch           1.5.116-1.el7            @puppet_enterprise
pe-console-services-termini.noarch   1.5.116-1.el7            @puppet_enterprise
pe-installer.x86_64                  2016.4.3-1.el7           @puppet_enterprise
pe-java.x86_64                       1.8.0.121-1.b13.pe.el7   @puppet_enterprise
pe-license.noarch                    0.1.5.15-1.pe.el7        @puppet_enterprise
pe-nginx.x86_64                      1.8.1-1.pe.el7           @puppet_enterprise
pe-orchestration-services.noarch     0.6.28-1.el7             @puppet_enterprise
pe-postgresql.x86_64                 9.4.9-1.pe.el7           @puppet_enterprise
pe-postgresql-contrib.x86_64         9.4.9-1.pe.el7           @puppet_enterprise
pe-postgresql-pglogical.x86_64       1.1.3-1.el7              @puppet_enterprise
pe-postgresql-server.x86_64          9.4.9-1.pe.el7           @puppet_enterprise
pe-puppet-enterprise-release.noarch  2016.4.3.0-1.pe.el7      @puppet_enterprise
pe-puppet-license-cli.noarch         0.1.7.26-1.pe.el7        @puppet_enterprise
pe-puppetdb.noarch                   4.2.3.1-1.el7            @puppet_enterprise
pe-puppetdb-termini.noarch           4.2.3.1-1.el7            @puppet_enterprise
pe-puppetserver.noarch               2016.4.3.4-1.el7         @puppet_enterprise
pe-r10k.x86_64                       2.4.5.0-1.el7            @puppet_enterprise</code></pre>
</li>
</ol>
<h4 id="remove-the-puppet-pc1-repository.">Remove the Puppet PC1 repository.</h4>
<p>If you have an agent package installed from the PC1 repository, complete the following steps to resolve the issue.</p>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>
<p>Back up the <code>puppet</code> and MCollective configuration files:</p>
<ul>
<li><code>cp -rp /etc/puppetlabs/puppet /etc/puppetlabs/puppet.save</code></li>
<li><code>cp -rp /etc/puppetlabs/mcollective /etc/puppetlabs/mcollective.save</code></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>Remove the Puppet PC1 <code>puppet-agent</code> package, in this case, <code>puppet-agent-1.9.3</code>:</p>
<p><code>rpm -e --nodeps puppet-agent-1.9.3</code></p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Remove the Puppet PC1 repository:</p>
<p><code>rpm -e --nodeps puppetlabs-release-pc1</code></p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Restore the <code>puppet</code> and MCollective configuration files on the master:</p>
<ul>
<li><code>mv /etc/puppetlabs/puppet /etc/puppetlabs/puppet.toss</code></li>
<li><code>mv /etc/puppetlabs/mcollective /etc/puppetlabs/mcollective.toss</code></li>
<li><code>mv /etc/puppetlabs/puppet.save /etc/puppetlabs/puppet</code></li>
<li><code>mv /etc/puppetlabs/mcollective.save /etc/puppetlabs/mcollective</code></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>Install the Puppet Enterprise <code>puppet-agent</code> package:</p>
<p><code>yum install puppet-agent</code></p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Rebuild the PE repos served by the master from <code>/opt/puppetlabs/server/data/packages/public/current</code>:</p>
<p><code>puppet agent -t</code></p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>You have resolved the issue and can now install the agent via curl.</p>
