# My agent node is not responding to "mco ping" in Puppet Enterprise 2016.1 to 2017.2
<p><strong>Important:</strong> Puppet Enterprise 2018.1 was the last release to support Marionette Collective, also known as MCollective. </p>
<p>To prepare for the change, <a title="Migrate MCollective" href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/2018.1/migrating_from_mcollective_to_orchestrator.md">migrate your MCollective work to Puppet orchestrator</a> to automate tasks and create consistent, repeatable administrative processes. Use orchestrator to automate your workflows and take advantage of its integration with Puppet Enterprise console and commands, APIs, role-based access control, and event tracking.</p>
<hr>
<p>One of my agent nodes is not responding to <code>mco ping</code>. How do I fix the issue?</p>
<h3 id="version-and-installation-information">Version and installation information</h3>
<p><strong>PE version:</strong> 2016.1 to 2017.2<br><strong>OS:</strong> Any Unix</p>
<h3 id="solution">Solution</h3>
<p>Ensure that your nodes are in the MCollective node group, and that the ActiveMQ and MCollective services are running.</p>
<p><strong>Notes:</strong></p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>Run all commands as the root user.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Links in this article take you to the PE 2017.2 documentation. Use the version selector to choose the right version of our documentation for your deployment.</p>
</li>
</ul>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>
<p>Check that the agent is part of the <strong>PE MCollective</strong> node group. Log into to the console and click <strong>Nodes &gt; Classification</strong>. To the left of <strong>PE Infrastructure</strong>, click <code>+</code> and then click <strong>PE MCollective</strong>. Click the <strong>Matching nodes</strong> tab.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>If the node isn't in the <strong>PE MCollective</strong> node group, add it to that group by either</p>
<p><a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/2017.2/console_classes_groups.markdown#adding-nodes-statically">Pinning the node</a>.</p>
<p>Or</p>
<p><a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/2017.2/console_classes_groups.markdown#adding-nodes-dynamically">Using a rule</a>. For example, add all nodes to the group using the following rule:</p>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td><strong>Fact</strong></td>
<td><strong>Operator</strong></td>
<td><strong>Value</strong></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>name</code></td>
<td><code>~</code></td>
<td><code>.*</code></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<p>Finish adding the node to the node group. On the master, run <code>puppet agent -t</code></p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Check to see if ActiveMQ is running. On the master, run <code>puppet resource service pe-activemq</code></p>
</li>
<li>
<p>If ActiveMQ isn't running, start the service. On the master, run <code>puppet resource service pe-activemq ensure=running</code></p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Check to see if MCollective is running. On an unresponsive agent, run <code>puppet resource service mcollective</code></p>
</li>
<li>
<p>If MCollective isn't running, start it. On the same unresponsive agent, run <code>puppet resource service mcollective ensure=running</code></p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Repeat steps five and six on each unresponsive agent.</p>
</li>
</ol>
