# Use Code Manager to deploy code from a repository with a self-signed certificate for Puppet Enterprise 2016.1 to 2016.4, 2017.1, 2017.3, and 2018.1.7
<p>If you host your own code repository and its certificate is self-signed, you must change some settings before Code Manager will let you deploy code from it.</p>
<h3 id="error-messages-and-logs">Error messages and logs</h3>
<p>In <code>/var/log/puppetlabs/puppetserver/puppetserver.log</code>, messages such as:</p>
<pre><code>2017-04-06 11:33:17,569 INFO [deploy-pool-1] [p.c.core] Attempting to deploy environment 'test_env'...
2017-04-06 11:33:24,393 ERROR [deploy-pool-1] [p.c.core] Errors while deploying environment 'test_env' (exit code: 1):
ERROR   -&gt; The SSL certificate is invalid</code></pre>
<h3 id="version-and-installation-information">Version and installation information</h3>
<p><strong>PE version:</strong> 2016.1 to 2016.4, 2017.1, 2017.3, 2018.1.7</p>
<p>If you're on PE versions: 2019.8.0, 2021.0 to 2021.7, see: <a href="https://support.puppet.com/hc/en-us/articles/115000390993" target="_self">Add certificates to the Puppet certificate bundle in Puppet Enterprise 2019.8.0, and 2021.0 to 2021.7</a>.<br><strong>Installation type:</strong> Monolithic or split</p>
<h3 id="solution">Solution:</h3>
<p>There are two options that will allow Code Manager to deploy code from your repository. You can:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>Use a Git source instead of an HTTPS source to refer to your repository in your Puppetfile. This option requires adding SSH keys to your Puppet master and your repository.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Add a certificate authority (CA) cert for the repository to the list of trusted CAs in <code>/opt/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl/cert.pem</code>.</p>
</li>
</ul>
<p>Changing the reference to your Git repository in your Puppetfile and using SSH keys is secure, but might require some work and time to set up. Adding a CA cert for the repository to the list of trusted CAs in <code>/opt/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl/cert.pem</code> is less work, but it is less secure than using SSH keys, and you must remember to do it again each time you upgrade PE.</p>
<h4 id="option-one-use-a-git-source-instead-of-an-https-source">Option one: Use a Git source instead of an HTTPS source</h4>
<p>To deploy code from your repository using a Git source, configure a private SSH key on your Puppet master and a public SSH key on your repository:</p>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>
<p>In your Puppetfile, change references to your Git repository from an HTTPS source to a Git source:</p>
<p>For example, change:</p>
<pre><code>mod 'site_date',
  :git: 'https://example.com/user/site_data.git',</code></pre>
<p>to:</p>
<pre><code>mod 'site_data',
  :git: 'git@example.com:user/site_data.git',</code></pre>
</li>
<li>
<p>Configure your SSH keys. Configure the private key using our documentation on how to Declare module or data content with SSH private key authentication for <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/2018.1/2018.1_markdown/puppetfile.md#declare-module-or-data-content-with-ssh-private-key-authentication">PE 2018.1</a>.<br><br><strong>Note:</strong> Use the version selector to choose the right version of our documentation for your deployment.<br><br>The details of configuring your public key depend on how your Git repository is configured. Talk to your Git repository administrator.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<h4 id="option-two-add-a-trusted-ca-cert">Option two: Add a trusted CA cert</h4>
<p>If you are unable to specify a Git source, add your repository to the list of CAs trusted by Code Manager by adding a CA cert to the file <code>/opt/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl/cert.pem</code>.</p>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>
<p>Transfer the cert (<code>ca.pem</code>) file to your CA node.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>On the CA node, add the cert to the list of CAs trusted by Code Manager: <code>cat ca.pem &gt;&gt; /opt/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl/cert.pem</code></p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>Agent runs won't revert changes made to <code>cert.pem</code> because the file isn't managed by PE, but upgrades to PE will overwrite the file. After you upgrade PE, you must add the CA cert to <code>cert.pem</code> again.</p>
