# Disable the scheduled "refresh-mcollective-metadata" task on agent nodes in Puppet Enterprise
<p><strong>Important:</strong> Puppet Enterprise 2018.1 is the last release to support Marionette Collective, also known as MCollective. Future releases of PE will not include MCollective. </p>
<p>To prepare for these changes, <a title="Migrate MCollective" href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/2018.1/2018.1_markdown/migrating_from_mcollective_to_orchestrator.md">migrate your MCollective work to Puppet orchestrator</a> to automate tasks and create consistent, repeatable administrative processes. Use orchestrator to automate your workflows and take advantage of its integration with Puppet Enterprise console and commands, APIs, role-based access control, and event tracking.</p>
<hr>
<p>By default, the <code>refresh-mcollective-metadata</code> scheduled task runs at 15 minute intervals on all agent nodes. Depending on your deployment, it might take a long time to run or use too much of the CPU.</p>
<p>You can disable the task and schedule it to run when the OS is not doing CPU intensive tasks using a crontab entry or Windows task if:</p>
<ul>
<li>You use MCollective for occasional ad hoc tasks</li>
</ul>
<p>or</p>
<ul>
<li>You use MCollective frequently but the facts filtering MCollective jobs rarely change or never change</li>
</ul>
<h3 id="version-and-installation-information">Version and installation information</h3>
<p><strong>PE version:</strong> All supported versions<br><strong>Installation type:</strong> All</p>
<h3 id="solution">Solution</h3>
<p>Disable Puppet management of scheduling of the <code>refresh-mcollective-metadata</code> task in the console (for all nodes) or in Hiera (for all nodes, node groups, or individual nodes.) Then, schedule the runs when the OS is not doing CPU intensive tasks by editing the crontab entry (in *nix) or task (in the Windows Task Scheduler).</p>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>
<p>Stop Puppet management of the <code>refresh-mcollective-metadata</code> task:</p>
<p><strong>For all nodes in the console:</strong></p>
<p>In the console, click <strong>Classification</strong>, click <strong>PE MCollective</strong>, click <strong>Classes</strong>. Under the <code>puppet_enterprise::profile::mcollective::agent</code> class select the <code>manage_metadata_cron</code> parameter. Change the <strong>Value</strong> to <em>false</em>. Click <strong>Add parameter</strong> and then click <strong>Commit Change</strong>.</p>
<p><strong>For all nodes, node groups, or individual nodes In Hiera</strong></p>
<p>On the affected nodes, stop managing <code>manage_metadata_cron</code>. Make changes in the appropriate file by adding:</p>
<p><code>puppet_enterprise::profile::mcollective::agent::manage_metadata_cron: false</code></p>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>For these nodes</td>
<td>Edit this file</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>All nodes</td>
<td>Your hieradata directory’s <code>common.yaml</code> file</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Node groups</td>
<td>In your Hiera hierarchy in a <code>.yaml</code> file matching the nodes where you are changing the setting (based on a node group, data center, OS, and so on.)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Individual nodes</td>
<td>The node’s <code>.yaml</code> file</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</li>
<li>
<p>On each agent node where the task is disabled, edit the crontab entry or task.</p>
</li>
</ol>
