# Failed lookups on added LDAP users and groups during Puppet agent runs in Puppet Enterprise 2016.4, 2017.2, and 2017.3
<p>I used a profile to integrate newly provisioned nodes with our Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP) server's users and groups. <span style="font-weight: 400;">The integration was successful, but when the Puppet service runs, it fails with errors saying that the LDAP users and groups do not exist.</span></p>
<h3 id="error-messages-and-logs">Error messages and logs</h3>
<pre><code>Notice: /Stage[main]/Nssprob/Package[sssd]/ensure: created
Notice: /Stage[main]/Nssprob/File[/etc/sssd/sssd.conf]/ensure: defined content as '{md5}f0ca565ce0df5744d7ca410fcb8e52e1'
Notice: /Stage[main]/Nssprob/Service[sssd]/ensure: ensure changed 'stopped' to 'running'
Info: /Stage[main]/Nssprob/Service[sssd]: Unscheduling refresh on Service[sssd]
Notice: /Stage[main]/Nssprob/Exec[add nss entry]/returns: executed successfully
Error: Could not set 'file' on ensure: Could not find user adam.bottchen at /etc/puppetlabs/code/environments/production/modules/nssprob/manifests/init.pp:31
Error: Could not set 'file' on ensure: Could not find user adam.bottchen at /etc/puppetlabs/code/environments/production/modules/nssprob/manifests/init.pp:31
Wrapped exception:
Could not find user adam.bottchen
Error: /Stage[main]/Nssprob/File[/tmp/file]/ensure: change from absent to file failed: Could not set 'file' on ensure: Could not find user adam.bottchen at /etc/puppetlabs/code/environments/production/modules/nssprob/manifests/init.pp:31
Info: Class[Nssprob]: Unscheduling all events on Class[Nssprob]</code></pre>
<h3 id="version-and-installation-information">Version and installation information</h3>
<p><strong>PE version:</strong> 2016.4, 2017.2, and 2017.3<br><strong>OS:</strong> *nix</p>
<h3 id="solution">Solution</h3>
<p>On *nix systems, <code>nsswitch.conf</code> is the file that determines the backend databases for users and groups. <a href="https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=132608#c2">By design</a>, each process that uses <code>nsswitch.conf</code> <a href="https://linux.die.net/man/5/nsswitch.conf"> reads the entire file only once</a>.</p>
<p>When a manual agent run starts, the <code>nsswitch.conf</code> file is read in once. If the run makes changes to the <code>nsswitch.conf</code> file, the changes will not be loaded. This causes resources relying on those changes to fail.</p>
<p>When runs are started by the agent service, the contents of the <code>nsswitch.conf</code> file are read when the service is started, and won't be read again until the service is restarted. Since runs started by the agent service have the same shared libraries as the service, runs will not reflect any updates to <code>nsswitch.conf</code> until the service is restarted.</p>
<p>How you run Puppet determines how you will fix the issue.</p>
<h4 id="run-puppet-from-cron"><strong>Run Puppet from Cron</strong></h4>
<p>If you run Puppet from Cron, you won't have the issue - Cron starts a new Puppet process each time it runs. You will get errors reporting the missing users and groups during the first run, but the second run will be successful.</p>
<h4 id="run-puppet-manually"><strong>Run Puppet manually</strong></h4>
<p>If you run Puppet manually, run Puppet twice to solve the issue. The first run updates the <code>nsswitch.conf</code> file.The second run loads the libraries that do user and group lookups. You will get errors reporting the missing users and groups during the first run, but the second run will be successful.</p>
<h4 id="run-puppet-using-the-agent-service"><strong>Run Puppet using the agent service</strong></h4>
<p>Restart the agent service after <code>nsswitch.conf</code> is updated in order to pull in changes to the file.</p>
<p>There are three ways to do this:</p>
<p>If you use MCollective, use it to restart the agent service.</p>
<ul>
<li>On the master: <code>su - peadmin -c "mco service -I &lt;target node certname&gt; puppet restart"</code>.</li>
</ul>
<p>If you are running 2017.3 or newer, use a task to restart the agent service.</p>
<ul>
<li>On the master: <code>sudo puppet task run service service=puppet action=restart -n &lt;target node name&gt;</code>.</li>
</ul>
<p>If you do not use MCollective and you are not using 2017.3, update the affected manifest to restart the agent service whenever a resource updates <code>nsswitch.conf</code>.</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>For example:</p>
<pre><code>  exec {'add nss entry':
    command =&gt; "sed -ie 's/\(^passwd:.*files\)/\1 sss/' /etc/nsswitch.conf",
    path    =&gt; "/bin",
    unless  =&gt; "grep 'passwd:.*sss' /etc/nsswitch.conf",
  } ~&gt;

  service { 'puppet':
    ensure =&gt; running,
  }</code></pre>
</li>
</ul>
<h4 id="avoid-the-error-message-optional"><strong>Avoid the error message (Optional)</strong></h4>
<p>To avoid the error message during the first run, add tags to resources that are a part of the <code>nsswitch.conf</code> update. This allows them to be applied first during installation.</p>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>
<p>Add a tag, such as <code>'nss'</code>, to each resource that is part of setting up the new nsswitch.conf backend: <code>tag =&gt; 'nss'</code></p>
<p>For example, the following module sets <code>sss</code> as the <code>passwd</code> backend and contains a file resource that depends on an LDAP user.</p>
<p>The <code>pe_ini_setting</code> resource strips the tags parameter out of the configuration for subsequent runs.</p>
<pre><code>class base {
  # Install the sssd package
  package { 'sssd':
    ensure =&gt; installed,
    tag    =&gt; 'nss',
  }

  # Copy over the sssd configuration file
  file { '/etc/sssd/sssd.conf':
    ensure  =&gt; file,
    source  =&gt; 'puppet:///modules/nssprob/sssd.conf',
    mode    =&gt; '0600',
    owner   =&gt; 'root',
    group   =&gt; 'root',
    require =&gt; Package['sssd'],
    tag     =&gt; 'nss',
  }

  # Add sss to the passwd line of nsswitch.conf
  exec {'add nss entry':
    command =&gt; 'sed -ie \'s/\(^passwd:.*files\)/\1 sss/\' /etc/nsswitch.conf',
    path    =&gt; '/bin',
    unless  =&gt; "grep 'passwd:.*sss' /etc/nsswitch.conf",
    require =&gt; File['/etc/sssd/sssd.conf'],
    tag     =&gt; 'nss',
  }

  # Start the sssd service to enable access to the LDAP backend
  service { 'sssd':
    ensure  =&gt; running,
    require =&gt; Exec['add nss entry'],
    tag     =&gt; 'nss',
  }

  # Remove the 'nss' tags entry from puppet.conf.  This is assumed to be added by the curl bash installer
  pe_ini_setting { 'remove tags':
    ensure  =&gt; absent,
    path    =&gt; '/etc/puppetlabs/puppet/puppet.conf',
    section =&gt; 'main',
    setting =&gt; 'tags',
    require =&gt; Service['sssd'],
    tag     =&gt; 'nss',
  }

  # Restart the Puppet agent service
  service { 'puppet':
    ensure    =&gt; running,
    subscribe =&gt; Pe_ini_setting['remove tags'],
    tag       =&gt; 'nss',
  }

  # Creates a file owned by an LDAP based user
  file {'/tmp/file':
    ensure =&gt; file,
    owner  =&gt; 'adam.bottchen',
  }
}</code></pre>
</li>
<li>
<p>Install the agent using the install script, adding <code>'nss'</code> <code>'puppet'</code> and <code>'puppet_enterprise'</code> tags. The <code>'nss'</code> tag refers to the <code>tag =&gt; 'nss'</code> attributes on the resources in the manifest, which forces Puppet to target resources containing that tag on the initial run. The <code>'puppet'</code> tag allows the install script to start Puppet services. The <code>'puppet_enterprise'</code> tag allows Puppet to apply changes specific to the <code>'puppet_enterprise</code>' module, such as MCollective plugins.</p>
<p>Run: <code>curl -k https://puppetmaster.puppet.com:8140/packages/current/install.bash |bash -s main:tags=puppet_enterprise,puppet,nss</code></p>
<pre><code># curl -k https://puppetmaster.puppet.com:8140/packages/current/install.bash |bash -s main:tags=puppet_enterprise,puppet,nss
..standard installation output...
# grep puppet-agent /var/log/messages
Oct  9 14:35:22 localhost puppet-agent[6152]: (/Stage[main]/Base/Package[sssd]/ensure) created
Oct  9 14:35:22 localhost puppet-agent[6152]: (/Stage[main]/Base/File[/etc/sssd/sssd.conf]/ensure) defined content as '{md5}f0ca565ce0df5744d7ca410fcb8e52e1'

Oct  9 14:35:22 localhost puppet-agent[6152]: (/Stage[main]/Base/Exec[add nss entry]/returns) executed successfully
Oct  9 14:35:23 localhost puppet-agent[6152]: (/Stage[main]/Base/Service[sssd]/ensure) ensure changed 'stopped' to 'running'
Oct  9 14:35:23 localhost puppet-agent[6152]: (/Stage[main]/Base/Pe_ini_setting[remove tags]/ensure) removed
Oct  9 14:35:23 localhost puppet-agent[6064]: Caught TERM; exiting
Oct  9 14:35:25 localhost puppet-agent[6346]: Reopening log files
Oct  9 14:35:25 localhost puppet-agent[6346]: Starting Puppet client version 4.10.1
Oct  9 14:35:25 localhost puppet-agent[6350]: Run of Puppet configuration client already in progress; skipping  (/opt/puppetlabs/puppet/cache/state/agent_catalog_run.lock exists)
Oct  9 14:35:25 localhost puppet-agent[6152]: (/Stage[main]/Base/Service[puppet]) Triggered 'refresh' from 1 events
...Initial Puppet bootstrap messages...
Oct  9 14:35:30 localhost puppet-agent[6152]: Applied catalog in 8.67 seconds
Oct  9 14:36:29 localhost puppet-agent[6508]: (/Stage[main]/Base/File[/tmp/file]/ensure) created
Oct  9 14:36:30 localhost puppet-agent[6508]: Applied catalog in 1.10 seconds
# ls -l /tmp/file
-rw-r--r--. 1 adam.bottchen root 0 Oct  9 14:36 /tmp/file</code></pre>
</li>
</ol>
