# Unable to install agents from a Puppet Enterprise 2016.4.5 or 2017.2.1 compile master
<p>I upgraded to PE version 2017.2.1. I added the <code>pe_repo::platform::el_7_x86_64</code> class to the <strong>PE Master</strong> node group so that I can upgrade my agent nodes. However, when I try to install an agent from my compile master, it fails with a 404 error.</p>
<h3 id="error-messages">Error messages</h3>
<p>Agent installation fails with one of these errors:</p>
<p><code># curl -k https://compilemaster.puppet.com:8140/packages/current/install.bash |bash https://compilemaster.puppet.com:8140/packages/2016.4.5/el-7-x86_64/repodata/repomd.xml: [Errno 14] HTTPS Error 404 - Not Found</code></p>
<p>or</p>
<pre><code>W: The repository 'https://compilemaster.puppet.com:8140/packages/2016.4.5/ubuntu-16.04-amd64 xenial Release' does not have a Release file.

E: Failed to fetch https://compilemaster.puppet.com:8140/packages/2016.4.5/ubuntu-16.04-amd64/dists/xenial/PC1/binary-amd64/Packages  404  Not Found</code></pre>
<h3 id="version-and-installation-information">Version and installation information</h3>
<p><strong>PE version:</strong> 2016.4.5 or 2017.2.1<br> <strong>OS:</strong> Any<br> <strong>Installation type:</strong> Any installation with compile masters</p>
<h3 id="solution">Solution</h3>
<p>Due to a known issue, the <code>pe_repo</code> tarballs used to install *nix agent nodes are not deployed from the master of masters to compile masters. The directory structure needed to install PE on agent nodes is not in place, so you get a 404 error.</p>
<p>You can fix the issue by upgrading to PE 2016.4.6 (or later versions in the 2016.4.x series) or 2017.2.2 (or later). If you're not able to upgrade, use this workaround.</p>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>
<p>Work around the issue by adding the missing target repo to each compile master.</p>
<p>Here's an example command to run on a Ubuntu version 16.04 (amd64) compile master:</p>
<pre><code>FACTER_repo="ubuntu-16.04-amd64" FACTER_server=$(puppet config print server) puppet apply -e 'file {"/opt/puppetlabs/server/data/packages/public/${::pe_build}/${::repo}-${::aio_agent_version}": ensure =&gt; directory, recurse =&gt; true, source =&gt; "puppet://${::server}/pe_packages/${::pe_build}/${::repo}-${::aio_agent_version}" }'</code></pre>
<p>If you're using a different OS, version, or architecture, replace the <code>FACTER_repo</code> environment variable with the appropriate missing target repo from the error. Use dashes, not underscores, to separate the operating system, version, and architecture in the repo class name. <strong>Note:</strong> Keep the underscore in x86_64 architecture (for example, <code>el-7-x86_64</code>).</p>
</li>
</ol>
