# Code Manager "timeout was exceeded" error when deploying code with "puppet-code deploy --all --wait" in Puppet Enterprise 2017.2.1
<p>I upgraded to PE 2017.2.1. When I deploy code by running <code>puppet-code deploy --all --wait</code>, the command runs more slowly than it did before my upgrade, and it fails with a "timeout exceeded" error. How can I fix this?</p>
<h3 id="error-messages-and-logs">Error messages and logs</h3>
<p>When running puppet-code deploy with the <code>--wait</code> flag, code deployments fail with the error:</p>
<pre><code>"status": "error"
}
}
}
]
},
"kind": "puppetlabs.code-manager/timeout-exceeded",
"msg": "The deploys job failed to sync before the sync timeout was exceeded."
}</code></pre>
<p>Code Manager's <code>$timeouts_sync</code> variable defaults to 60 seconds, which is too low for Puppet Enterprise deployments that: use compile masters, where a large number of environments are deployed at the same time, or where large environments are deployed</p>
<p>This results in a <code>timeout was exceeded</code> error.</p>
<p>In PE 2017.2.1, deploying code using <code>puppet-code deploy --all --wait</code> synchronizes code to the master of masters and all compile masters, which causes the deployment to time out and fail when <code>$timeouts_sync</code> is too short. In addition, the r10k gem shipped with PE 2017.2.1 checks for module deprecation every time code is deployed to each environment, slowing code deployment.</p>
<h3 id="version-and-installation-information">Version and installation information</h3>
<p><strong>PE version:</strong> 2017.2.1<br> <strong>OS:</strong> RHEL-based<br> <strong>Installation type:</strong> Any</p>
<h3 id="solution">Solution</h3>
<p>Fix this issue by upgrading to PE 2017.2.2.</p>
<p>If you're unable to upgrade, work around this issue by increasing the value of<code>timeouts_sync</code> in Hiera and installing a newer version of the r10k gem.</p>
<p>As root on the master of masters (MoM):</p>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>
<p>Increase the value of <code>timeouts_sync</code>in Hiera. In your control repository, add the following parameter to your control repository hierarchy in <code>hieradata/common.yaml</code>:</p>
<p><code>puppet_enterprise::master::code_manager::timeouts_sync: &lt;value&gt;</code></p>
<p>Choose a value that allows enough time to deploy code on the MoM and all compile masters and that takes geographical distance into account. For example, in a Puppet Enterprise deployment with four compile masters in four different data centers, start with <code>timeouts_sync</code> set to 600, and increase it as needed.</p>
<p><strong>Warning:</strong> Do not edit Code Manager's configuration file manually. Puppet manages this configuration file automatically and will undo any manual changes you make.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Find the version of the r10k gem that you're using. Run: <code>/opt/puppetlabs/puppet/bin/gem list r10k</code></p>
<p>The output is the version of the r10k gem that you're running: <code>r10k (2.5.4)</code></p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Uninstall the current version of the r10k gem and install a newer version of the r10k gem. Run:</p>
<p><code># /opt/puppetlabs/puppet/bin/gem uninstall r10k; /opt/puppetlabs/puppet/bin/gem install r10k -v 2.5.5; /opt/puppetlabs/puppet/bin/gem list r10k</code></p>
</li>
<li>
<p>To complete the uninstallation process, enter <em>Y</em> when prompted:</p>
<pre><code>    Remove executables:
        r10k

    in addition to the gem? [Yn]  Y</code></pre>
<p>When this step is completed successfully you get output similar to:</p>
<pre><code>    Removing r10k
    Successfully uninstalled r10k-2.5.4
    Fetching: r10k-2.5.5.gem (100%)
    Successfully installed r10k-2.5.5
    Parsing documentation for r10k-2.5.5
    Installing ri documentation for r10k-2.5.5
    Done installing documentation for r10k after 1 seconds
    1 gem installed
    *** LOCAL GEMS ***
    r10k (2.5.5)</code></pre>
</li>
</ol>
