# Use "journalctl -u puppetserver.service" to get additional Puppet server troubleshooting information in Puppet Enterprise 2015.2 to 2016.2.1
<p>When troubleshooting Puppet server issues in a *nix that uses systemd, use <code>journalctl -u puppetserver.service</code> to query <code>journalctl</code> and get additional information.</p>
<h3 id="version-and-installation-information">Version and installation information</h3>
<p><strong>PE version:</strong> 2015.2.x to 2016.2.1. Versions of Puppet Enterprise from 2016.2.2 forward show this level of detail.</p>
<p><strong>OS:</strong> *nix using systemd (EL 6 and 7, SLES 12, Ubuntu 14.04, 16.04)</p>
<h3 id="solution">Solution</h3>
<p>For example, if you include an invalid setting in <code>puppet.conf</code>, the server fails to start.</p>
<p>The suggestions given by systemd to run <code>systemctl status puppetserver.service</code> and <code>journalctl -xn</code> often do not include enough detail to determine the cause of the failure. For example:</p>
<pre><code>[root@rxago6dpaxpy69h ~]# service puppetserver restart
Redirecting to /bin/systemctl restart  puppetserver.service
Job for puppetserver.service failed. See 'systemctl status puppetserver.service' and 'journalctl -xn' for details.</code></pre>
<p>However, if you use <code>journalctl -u puppetserver.service</code> it reveals an error.</p>
<pre><code>[root@rxago6dpaxpy69h ~]# journalctl -u puppetserver.service
-- Logs begin at Wed 2016-03-16 08:16:51 PDT, end at Wed 2016-03-16 09:15:59 PDT. --
Mar 16 09:02:13 rxago6dpaxpy69h systemd[1]: Starting puppetserver Service...
Mar 16 09:02:13 rxago6dpaxpy69h java[3040]: OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM warning: ignoring option MaxPermSize=256m; support was removed in 8.0
Mar 16 09:02:45 rxago6dpaxpy69h java[3040]: Exception in thread "main" java.lang.IllegalStateException: Config setting ca_ttl must have a value below 1576800000</code></pre>
