# Tune ActiveMQ timeouts to improve MCollective connection reliability in Puppet Enterprise 3.7.2 to 2016.4.5 and 2016.5 to 2017.2.1
<p><strong>Important:</strong> Puppet Enterprise 2018.1 was the last release to support Marionette Collective, also known as MCollective. Future releases of PE will not include MCollective. </p>
<p>To prepare for these changes, <a title="Migrate MCollective" href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/2018.1/migrating_from_mcollective_to_orchestrator.md">migrate your MCollective work to Puppet orchestrator</a> to automate tasks and create consistent, repeatable administrative processes. Use orchestrator to automate your workflows and take advantage of its integration with Puppet Enterprise console and commands, APIs, role-based access control, and event tracking.</p>
<hr>
<p>The ActiveMQ message broker used by MCollective servers monitors active connections and closes dead ones. Each connection’s health is tested by a regular exchange of <a href="http://stomp.github.io/stomp-specification-1.2.html#Heart-beating">STOMP heartbeat</a> messages between the broker and the server. By default, ActiveMQ enforces a strict schedule for heartbeats. When healthy connections are delayed even slightly by the network, they are closed. Improve MCollective connection reliability by tuning ActiveMQ to accommodate delayed heartbeats.</p>
<h3 id="error-messages-and-logs">Error messages and logs</h3>
<p>When ActiveMQ closes a connection due to late heartbeats, the ActiveMQ log at <code>/var/log/puppetlabs/activemq/activemq.log</code> includes warning messages similar to the following:</p>
<p><code>2017-06-01 18:26:36,857 | WARN | Transport Connection to: tcp://192.168.0.137:49775 failed: org.apache.activemq.transport.InactivityIOException: Channel was inactive for too (&gt;120500) long: tcp://192.168.0.137:49775 | org.apache.activemq.broker.TransportConnection.Transport | ActiveMQ InactivityMonitor Worker</code></p>
<p>In this case, the inactivity timeout - 120500 milliseconds - equals the configured heartbeat send interval plus a half second added by the MCollective server. A warning message appears when ActiveMQ is not tuned to allow late heartbeats for the default heartbeat interval (120).</p>
<h3 id="version-and-installation-information">Version and installation information</h3>
<p><strong>PE version:</strong> 3.7.2 to 2016.4.5 and 2016.5 to 2017.2.1 <br>This issue was resolved in 2016.4.6 and does not affect 2016.4.6 and later 2016.4 releases, and it does not affect 2017.2.2 and later.</p>
<h3 id="solution">Solution</h3>
<p>Allow late heartbeats by adding a grace period. For nodes running <code>pe-activemq</code>, add the configuration to your Hiera data. The location of the data depends on your Puppet Enterprise version and the customizations that you’ve made.</p>
<pre>puppet_enterprise::profile::amq::broker::stomp_transport_options:
  transport.enabledProtocols: 'TLSv1,TLSv1.1,TLSv1.2'
  transport.hbGracePeriodMultiplier: '1.5'</pre>
<p>The <code>enabledProtocols</code> key must be set to ensure that ActiveMQ uses secure TLS protocol versions, but setting the key does not affect STOMP heartbeats.</p>
