# ActiveMQ becomes unresponsive in Puppet Enterprise 2016.4.3 and earlier, 2016.5, and 2017.1
<p><strong>Important:</strong> Puppet Enterprise 2018.1 was the last release to support Marionette Collective, also known as MCollective. Future releases of PE will not include MCollective. </p>
<p>To prepare for these changes, <a title="Migrate MCollective" href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/2018.1/migrating_from_mcollective_to_orchestrator.md">migrate your MCollective work to Puppet orchestrator</a> to automate tasks and create consistent, repeatable administrative processes. Use orchestrator to automate your workflows and take advantage of its integration with Puppet Enterprise console and commands, APIs, role-based access control, and event tracking.</p>
<hr>
<p>Each time an <code>mco</code> command is run in Puppet Enterprise 2016.4.3 and earlier, 2016.5, or 2017.1, the <code>pe-activemq</code> service leaks a small amount of memory. Over time, the service becomes unresponsive.</p>
<h3 id="version-and-installation-information">Version and installation information</h3>
<p><strong>PE version:</strong> 2016.4.3 and earlier, 2016.5, and 2017.1</p>
<h3 id="solution">Solution</h3>
<p>Restart the <code>pe-activemq</code> service to free memory temporarily. To permanently fix the leak, configure ActiveMQ to perform scheduled cleanups of temporary message queues created to reply to <code>mco</code> commands.</p>
<h4 id="already-configured-temporary-message-queue-cleanup">Already configured temporary message queue cleanup?</h4>
<p>If the ActiveMQ log on the master at <code>/var/log/puppetlabs/activemq/activemq.log</code> contains messages about removing inactive queues with <code>reply</code> in their names, ActiveMQ is already correctly configured to clean up inactive message queues, and you do not have the issue described in this article.</p>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>
<p>Check the ActiveMQ log on the master at <code>/var/log/puppetlabs/activemq/activemq.log</code> for messages similar to the following:</p>
<p><code>2017-05-24 22:54:44,988 | INFO | mcollective.reply.pe-201721-master.puppetdebug.vlan_7408.1 Inactive for longer than 300000 ms - removing ... | org.apache.activemq.broker.region.RegionBroker | ActiveMQ Broker[pe-201721-master.puppetdebug.vlan] Scheduler</code></p>
</li>
</ol>
<h4 id="fix-the-memory-leak">Fix the memory leak</h4>
<p>If the ActiveMQ log on the master at <code>/var/log/puppetlabs/activemq/activemq.log</code> does not contain messages about removing inactive queues with <code>reply</code> in their names, configure it to do so.</p>
<p>On each node running <code>pe-activemq</code>:</p>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>
<p>Copy the following manifest to a file named <code>amq_queue_cleanup.pp</code></p>
<pre><code>service {'pe-activemq': ensure =&gt; running}

augeas { "AMQ broker: enable queue cleanup":
  incl    =&gt; '/etc/puppetlabs/activemq/activemq.xml',
  lens    =&gt; 'ActiveMQ_XML.lns',
  context =&gt; "/files/etc/puppetlabs/activemq/activemq.xml/beans/broker",
  # Perform a GC sweep every 5 minutes for unused reply queues.
  changes =&gt; ["set #attribute/schedulePeriodForDestinationPurge '300000'"],
  notify  =&gt; Service['pe-activemq'],
}</code></pre>
</li>
<li>
<p>Apply the manifest by running <code>puppet apply amq_queue_cleanup.pp</code></p>
</li>
</ol>
