# Resolve a duplicate declaration error when adding a hostname to the certificate authority whitelist in the console for Puppet Enterprise 2016.2 to 2019.2.2 and 2019.5
<p>I want to sign certificate signing requests from nodes that aren't the Puppet Enterprise certificate authority (CA). I added hostnames to the certificate authority whitelist in the <code>puppet_enterprise::profile::certificate_authority::client_whitelist</code> parameter in the console. When I run Puppet, I get a duplicate declaration error. How can I resolve this?</p>
<h3 id="error-messages-and-logs">Error messages and logs</h3>
<p><code>Error: Could not retrieve catalog from remote server: Error 500 on SERVER: Server Error: Duplicate declaration: Class[Puppet_enterprise::Profile::Master] is already declared; cannot redeclare on node pe-201640-master</code></p>
<p>This error occurs due to a known issue in the console.</p>
<h3 id="version-and-installation-information">Version and installation information</h3>
<p><strong>PE version:</strong> 2016.2 to 2019.2.2 and 2019.5</p>
<h3 id="solution">Solution</h3>
<p>Resolve the issue by adding the hostname to the CA whitelist using Hiera instead of the console.</p>
<p><strong>Note:</strong> If you're not using the default Hiera configuration with common.yaml for common or default values, you'll need to modify these instructions.</p>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>
<p>Add hostnames to the CA whitelist in <code>common.yaml</code>.</p>
<pre><code>puppet_enterprise::profile::certificate_authority::client_whitelist:
  - agent2.example.com
  - 192.168.0.24</code></pre>
<p><strong>Note:</strong> The Puppet master's certname is included in the CA whitelist by default, you do not need to add it.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Update Hiera's configuration. On the master, run <code>puppet agent -t</code></p>
</li>
</ol>
