# Change the MCollective password in Puppet Enterprise 2015.2 to 2017.2
<p><strong>Important:</strong> Puppet Enterprise 2018.1 was the last release to support Marionette Collective, also known as MCollective. Future releases of PE do not include MCollective. </p>
<p>To prepare for these changes, <a title="Migrate MCollective" href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/2018.1/migrating_from_mcollective_to_orchestrator.md">migrate your MCollective work to Puppet orchestrator</a> to automate tasks and create consistent, repeatable administrative processes. Use orchestrator to automate your workflows and take advantage of its integration with Puppet Enterprise console and commands, APIs, role-based access control, and event tracking.</p>
<hr>
<p>When MCollective clients and servers connect, they authenticate with a username, password, and optionally an SSL certificate. The password is automatically generated during PE installation. If that password becomes compromised you can set a new one.</p>
<h3 id="version-and-installation-information">Version and installation information</h3>
<p><strong>PE version:</strong> 2015.2 to 2017.2</p>
<h3 id="solution">Solution</h3>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>
<p>Log into the master as root.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Edit <code>/etc/puppetlabs/mcollective/credentials</code>. Replace its content with your new password.</p>
<p><strong>Note:</strong> The password is stored in XML format. Do not use <code>&lt;</code> or <code>&amp;</code> in your new password.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>On the master, run <code>puppet agent --onetime --no-daemonize --detailed-exitcodes --no-usecacheonfailure</code></p>
<p><strong>Note:</strong> If you run <code>puppet agent -t</code> instead of the command provided in this step and the next step, the new password appears in the terminal output.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>The next scheduled Puppet run will apply the new password to all agents managed with MCollective.</p>
<p>To make the change right away, on all agents managed by MCollective, run <code>puppet agent --onetime --no-daemonize --detailed-exitcodes --no-usecacheonfailure</code>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Complete the change by restarting the MCollective service on the master:</p>
<pre>puppet resource service mcollective ensure=stopped
puppet resource service mcollective ensure=running</pre>
</li>
</ol>
