# Managing database size: Prune vs. vacuum for Puppet Enterprise 3.7 and 3.8
<p><strong>PE version:</strong> 3.x</p>
<p>The prune rake task and the vacuum rake task are two steps in optimizing the size of your database. This article explains the difference between them, and provides example commands for running them. For step by step instructions on reducing the size of your database, see: <a href="https://support.puppet.com/hc/en-us/articles/204924364-PostgreSQL-Database-Maintenance-and-Size">PostgreSQL: Database maintenance and size</a>.</p>
<h3><strong>The prune rake task:</strong></h3>
<p>The prune task is the first step in reclaiming disk space and reducing the size of your database. Prune removes data from the table by deleting tuples. In order to free the disk space associated with the tuples you must run the vacuum rake task.</p>
<p>The following is an example of the prune rake task that retains reports up to 30 days old:</p>
<p><code>sudo /opt/puppet/bin/rake -f /opt/puppet/share/puppet-dashboard/Rakefile RAILS_ENV=production reports:prune upto=30 unit=day</code></p>
<h3><strong>The vacuum rake task:</strong></h3>
<p>The vacuum task is the second step in reclaiming disk space and reducing the size of your database. It will reclaim disk space from the tuples deleted by the prune rake task. The vacuum rake task uses the <code>"VACUUM FULL"</code> command, which locks each table while it is being processed and rewrites the entire contents of the table to a different file without any empty rows. It requires approximately double the disk space of the database while it’s running and takes longer to complete than the prune rake task.</p>
<p>The following is an example of the vacuum rake task:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<strong>PE Version: </strong>3.x to 3.7<br><code>sudo /opt/puppet/bin/rake -f /opt/puppet/share/puppet-dashboard/Rakefile RAILS_ENV=production db:raw:optimize[reindex+vacuum]<br><br></code>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li>
<strong>PE Version:</strong> 3.8<br><code>su - pe-postgres -s /bin/bash -c "reindexdb console"; su - pe-postgres -s /bin/bash -c "vacuumdb --full --verbose console"</code>
</li>
</ul>
<p><strong><br>Additional resources:</strong></p>
<p><a href="https://support.puppet.com/hc/en-us/articles/204924364-PostgreSQL-Database-maintenance-and-size">PostgreSQL: Database maintenance and size</a></p>
<p>Read more about <code>VACUUM</code> at <a href="https://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.2/sql-vacuum.html">the PostgreSQL site.</a></p>
