# Console password reset for Puppet Enterprise 3.7 and 3.8
<p><a href="https://puppet.com/docs/pe/latest/console_log_in.html#generate_a_user_password_reset_token">Instructions for the latest version of Puppet Enterprise are in our documentation</a>.</p>
<p>I can't log in to the console and am receiving an incorrect username/console error. </p>
<h3>Error messages and logs</h3>
<p><strong>Error message</strong></p>
<pre>The username/password combination entered is incorrect. If you believe you have received this message in error, please consult the logs at /var/log/pe-console-services/console-services.log.</pre>
<p><strong>Log</strong></p>
<p><code>2015-07-07 16:02:33,845 WARN [p.r.utils] Authentication failed</code>.</p>
<h3>Version and installation information</h3>
<p><strong>PE version:</strong> 3.8, 3.7</p>
<h3>Solution:</h3>
<p>Reset the admin password by running the <code>update-superuser-password.rb</code> utility script. You will then be able to log into the console.</p>
<p><strong>Note:</strong> The script must be run from the command line of the console node. In a monolithic installation, the console is on the Puppet master node. In a split installation, the console is on a separate node from the Puppet master.</p>
<p>You will need to use the PE version of Ruby in <code>/opt/puppet/bin/ruby.</code></p>
<ol>
<li>Log into the console node as root.</li>
<li>The script file, <code>update-superuser-password.rb</code>, is not installed by default. It is contained in the PE 3.8.0 tarball. To get the file, go to <a href="https://puppet.com/misc/pe-files/previous-releases/3.8.0/">Previous Release: PE 3.8.0</a> page and copy the link for your OS.</li>
<li>Run <code>wget &lt;PE TARBALL LINK&gt;</code> on the console node. Replace <code>&lt;PE TARBALL LINK&gt;</code> with your copied link.<br><br><strong>Note:</strong> you will only be using the part of the link up to .gz, for example <code>wget http://pm.puppetlabs.com/puppet-enterprise/3.8.0/puppet-enterprise-3.8.0-el-6-x86_64.tar.gz</code>. This will download the PE 3.8.0 installer tarball.</li>
<li>Find the file path of the script in the tarball by running <code>tar -tzf &lt;TARBALL FILE NAME&gt; | grep superuser</code>, replacing <code>&lt;TARBALL FILE NAME&gt;</code> with your tarball file name.</li>
<li>Extract the script update-superuser-password.rb from the tarball by running <code>tar -xf &lt;TARBALL FILE NAME&gt; &lt;FILE PATH OF SCRIPT&gt;</code>, replacing <code>&lt;TARBALL FILE NAME&gt;</code> with your tarball file name and <code>&lt;FILE PATH OF SCRIPT&gt;</code> with the file path from step 4.</li>
<li>Navigate to the folder where the tarball extracted. Copy the script to <code>/opt/puppet/bin</code> by running <code>cp update-superuser-password.rb /opt/puppet/bin/update-superuser-password.rb.<br><br></code>
</li>
<li>On the console node, run <code>cd /opt/puppet/bin</code> to navigate to the directory containing the script.</li>
<li>To reset your password run the following on the console node replacing <code>&lt;NEWPASSWORD&gt;</code> with your new console password:<br>
<pre>q_puppet_enterpriseconsole_auth_password=&lt;NEWPASSWORD&gt; \<br>q_puppetagent_certname=$(puppet config print certname) /opt/puppet/bin/ruby \ <br>update-superuser-password.rb</pre>
<strong>Note:</strong> When the script runs successfully there is no output.</li>
<li>Log into the console using the admin account and your new password.</li>
</ol>
<p><br>To learn more about managing users, see Creating and Managing Users and User Roles for PE <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/3.8/rbac_user_roles.md">3.8</a> and <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/3.7/rbac_user_roles.md">3.7</a>.</p>
