# Run the support script for Puppet Enterprise 2015.2 to 2016.1 or 3.2 to 3.8.1
<p><strong>PE version:</strong> 3.2 to 2016.1<br><br>If you need to run the support script in Puppet Enterprise 2016.2 and later, please read an updated version of this article <a href="https://support.puppet.com/hc/en-us/articles/225924227">here</a>.</p>
<p>When you work with support, we might ask you to run an information-gathering script named <code>puppet-enterprise-support</code>. It is installed on all master, PuppetDB, and console nodes from Puppet Enterprise 3.2.0 forward. The script will collect a large amount of system information, compress it into a tarball, and tell you the location of the tarball when it finishes running. Since the information it gathers may be sensitive, we recommend that you examine the collected data before forwarding it to support.<br><br><strong>Note:</strong> If you need to obfuscate the hostnames and IP addresses collected by the support script , read <a href="https://support.puppet.com/hc/en-us/articles/115003312887">Obfuscate hostnames and IP addresses in Support Script output using SOScleaner</a>.</p>
<h3>To run <code>puppet-enterprise-support</code>:</h3>
<ol>
<li>If you have a monolithic installation, run the following command as root on the master node. If you have a split installation, run it on the master, PuppetDB, and console nodes as root:<br><br><strong>For PE 2016.1, 2015.3, and 2015.2</strong><br><br><code>IS_DEBUG=y /opt/puppetlabs/bin/puppet-enterprise-support</code><br><br><strong>For PE 3.2 to 3.8</strong><br><br><code>IS_DEBUG=y /opt/puppet/bin/puppet-enterprise-support</code><br><br>This will generate and tell you the location of the tarball, similar to the following:<br><code>Support data is located at /var/tmp/puppet_enterprise_support_20150714171152.tar.gz<br><br></code>
</li>
<li>Examine the collected data to ensure you’re not sharing sensitive data with us, particularly in <code>/enterprise/etc/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl</code>.</li>
<li>If you don’t have a ticket for your current issue, open one.</li>
<li>If the file is under 50MB, attach it to your support ticket. If the file is 50MB or larger, ask your Support Engineer how to send the information.</li>
</ol>
<p><br>To learn more about what kinds of information the support script will collect, see our documentation on <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/2016.1/overview_getting_support.markdown#the-pe-support-script">The PE Support Script</a>.</p>
<p>If you need more information, you can also take a look at the code for the support script.</p>
<p><strong>For PE 2016.1 and 2015.2</strong><br><code>/opt/puppetlabs/bin/puppet-enterprise-support</code></p>
<p><strong>PE 3.x</strong><br><code>/opt/puppet/bin/puppet-enterprise-support</code></p>
