# PuppetDB: Database maintenance and size for Puppet Enterprise 3.2 to 3.8
<p><strong>PE version:</strong> 3.2 to 3.8</p>
<p><strong>For later versions:</strong><br>View instructions for PE <a href="https://support.puppet.com/hc/en-us/articles/217593767">2015.3 and 2015.2</a><br>For recent versions, you can use the <a href="https://forge.puppet.com/modules/puppetlabs/pe_databases"><code>puppetlabs-pe_databases</code></a> module to back up, maintain, and tune your Puppet Enterprise databases.</p>
<p><strong>Note:</strong> This article assumes that PostgreSQL is installed in <code>/opt/puppet/bin/psql</code>. If you are using an external PostgreSQL instance, modify the commands to work for the correct path to your PostgreSQL instance.</p>
<h3>How do I maintain my databases?</h3>
<p>See <a href="https://puppet.com/blog/how-to-maintain-your-puppet-enterprise-console/">How to maintain your Puppet Enterprise console</a> and Maintaining the console &amp; databases for PE <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/3.2/maintain_console-db.markdown">3.2</a>, <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/3.3/maintain_console-db.markdown">3.3</a>, <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/3.7/maintain_console-db.markdown">3.7</a>, and <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/3.8/maintain_console-db.markdown">3.8</a>.</p>
<h3>How do I check the size of my databases on disk?</h3>
<p>To check the size of the directories that house your databases, run <code>du -h --max-depth=1 /opt/puppet/var/lib/pgsql/9.2/</code> on your PuppetDB node (the master in a monolithic installation).</p>
<h3>How do I check the size of each database table?</h3>
<p>Run <code>su - pe-postgres -s /bin/bash -c "/opt/puppet/bin/psql -d console -c '\d+'"</code> on your PuppetDB node (the master in a monolithic installation).</p>
<h3>How do I figure out which nodes have too many resources?</h3>
<p>If you have a lot of resources on a few nodes, you can reduce the number of resources per node. In order to figure out which nodes are the best candidates for this, run the following query on your PuppetDB node (the master in a monolithic installation), which will return the 15 nodes with the most resources.</p>
<pre>su - pe-postgres -s /bin/bash -c "/opt/puppet/bin/psql -d console -c 'SELECT host, count(rs.id) 
FROM ( SELECT max(id) as maxid, host FROM reports GROUP BY host ) as r 
JOIN resource_statuses as rs 
ON rs.report_id = r.maxid 
GROUP BY host 
ORDER BY count DESC 
LIMIT 15;'"</pre>
<p> </p>
<h3>My database is getting very big. What can I do to reduce the size?</h3>
<p>The easiest way to make your database smaller is to reduce the number of days of reports that it’s keeping. Run the following query on your PuppetDB node (the master in a monolithic installation) to return the date of your oldest report: <code>su - pe-postgres -s /bin/bash -c "/opt/puppet/bin/psql -d console -c 'SELECT MIN(time) FROM reports;'"</code> The number of days of reports that you have is the number of days between your oldest report date and today.</p>
<h3>Too late; I am running out of disk space. What should I do?</h3>
<p><strong>If you need to keep your report data:</strong></p>
<p>The optimization process will rewrite the database to an entirely new file. This requires double the disk space of your database to complete, so you may need to add more space to the disk.</p>
<ol>
<li>Prune older days data from the database. On the PuppetDB node (the master in a monolithic installation) run <code>sudo /opt/puppet/bin/rake -f /opt/puppet/share/puppet-dashboard/Rakefile RAILS_ENV=production reports:prune upto=&lt;NUMBER OF DAYS&gt; unit=day</code>, where <code>&lt;NUMBER OF DAYS&gt;</code> is the number of days of reports that you want to keep. We recommend keeping three to seven days.</li>
<li>Reindex the data:<br><br>
<ul>
<li>
<strong>For PE 3.2 to 3.7:</strong> Run the following on your PuppetDB node (the master in a monolithic installation) <code>sudo /opt/puppet/bin/rake -f /opt/puppet/share/puppet-dashboard/Rakefile RAILS_ENV=production db:raw:optimize[reindex+vacuum]</code>
</li>
</ul>
<br>
<ul>
<li>
<strong>For PE 3.8:</strong> Run the following on your PuppetDB node (the master in a monolithic installation) <code>su - pe-postgres -s /bin/bash -c "reindexdb console"; su - pe-postgres -s /bin/bash -c "vacuumdb --full --verbose console"</code>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ol>
<p><strong>If you do not need to keep your report data:</strong></p>
<p>Delete all report data by running the following command on your PuppetDB node (the master in a monolithic installation): <code>su - pe-postgres -s /bin/bash -c "/opt/puppet/bin/psql -d console -c 'TRUNCATE TABLE reports CASCADE'"</code></p>
<p><strong>Additional resources:</strong></p>
<p><a href="https://support.puppet.com/hc/en-us/articles/205163840-PostgreSQL-Common-commands-and-troubleshooting">PostgreSQL: Common commands and troubleshooting</a></p>
<p><a href="https://puppet.com/blog/how-to-maintain-your-puppet-enterprise-console/">How to maintain your Puppet Enterprise console</a></p>
<p><a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/3.8/maintain_console-db.markdown">Maintaining the console &amp; databases</a></p>
