# Log in to PostgreSQL and troubleshoot console issues for Puppet Enterprise 3.8
<p><strong>PE version: </strong>3.8</p>
<p>This article covers how to log into PostgreSQL, troubleshooting slow loading of the console first page, and troubleshooting high numbers of failed or pending tasks.</p>
<p><strong>Note: </strong>The information here assumes that you have PE installed PostgreSQL instances.  Run <code>/opt/puppet/bin/psql</code> on your master to avoid using non-PE installed instances of PostgreSQL farther up in the path. If you are using an external PostgreSQL instance, the commands will not work as written.  </p>
<p> </p>
<h3>How do I log into the PostgreSQL database?</h3>
<p>To log into the PostgreSQL database, you will need the console user password from <code>/etc/puppetlabs/installer/database_info.install</code>.</p>
<ol>
<li>To become the pe-postgresql user, run <code>su - pe-postgres -s /bin/bash</code>.</li>
<li>To get to the PostgreSQL CLI, run <code>/opt/puppet/bin/psql</code>.</li>
<li>If you have a split installation, test your remote connection by running <code>/opt/puppet/bin/psql -h &lt;POSTGRESQL_HOST_NAME&gt; -d console -U console</code>.</li>
</ol>
<p> </p>
<h3>The console is slow to load the first page</h3>
<p>The query that feeds data into the bar graph gets slower as the number of nodes and number of days of reports increase. To alleviate the issue, perform these steps:</p>
<ol>
<li>Increase <code>work_mem</code> in postgreSQL up to 256MB.</li>
<li>Restart the PostgreSQL server by running the following as root on the master: <br><br><code>puppet resource service pe-postgresql ensure=stopped<br>puppet resource service pe-postgresql ensure=running</code>
</li>
<li>Adjust <code>work_mem</code> until the page loads normally. If making the adjustment doesn’t resolve the problem, you can improve the page loading time by reducing the number of days of reports in the database. See <a href="https://support.puppet.com/hc/en-us/articles/204924364">PostgreSQL: Database Maintenance and Size</a>.</li>
</ol>
<p> </p>
<h3>I have a high number of failed or pending tasks</h3>
<ol>
<li>To see your delayed_job and delayed_job_monitor processes, run <code>ps aux | grep delayed</code>.</li>
<li>Run <code>puppet resource service pe-puppet-dashboard-workers ensure=stopped</code>.</li>
<li>Run <code>ps aux | grep delayed</code>.</li>
<li>Kill any remaining <code>delayed_job_monitor</code> and <code>delayed_job</code> processes.</li>
<li>Run <code>ls -l /opt/puppet/share/puppet-dashboard/tmp/pids/*.pid</code>. Remove any .pid files that you find.</li>
<li>To clear pending tasks, run <code>su - pe-postgres -s /bin/bash -c "/opt/puppet/bin/psql -d console -c 'TRUNCATE TABLE delayed_jobs'"</code>.</li>
<li>To clear failed tasks, run <code>su - pe-postgres -s /bin/bash -c "/opt/puppet/bin/psql -d console -c 'TRUNCATE TABLE delayed_job_failures'"</code>.</li>
<li>Run <code>puppet resource service pe-puppet-dashboard-workers ensure=running</code>. </li>
</ol>
<p><br>Pending tasks should start to decrease and the nodes should become responsive again. </p>
