# MCollective: Basic troubleshooting in Puppet Enterprise 3.7 and 3.8
<p><strong>Important:</strong> Puppet Enterprise 2018.1 is the last release to support Marionette Collective, also known as MCollective. Future releases of PE will not include MCollective. For more information, see the <a href="https://puppet.com/products/puppet-enterprise/product-support-lifecycle/" target="_blank" rel="noopener">Puppet Enterprise support lifecycle</a>.</p>
<p>To prepare for these changes, <a title="Migrate MCollective" href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/2018.1/migrating_from_mcollective_to_orchestrator.md">migrate your MCollective work to Puppet orchestrator</a> to automate tasks and create consistent, repeatable administrative processes. Use orchestrator to automate your workflows and take advantage of its integration with Puppet Enterprise console and commands, APIs, role-based access control, and event tracking.</p>
<hr>
<p><strong>PE version:</strong> 3.7.0, 3.8.1</p>
<p>This article walks you through basic MCollective and ActiveMQ troubleshooting in PE 3.7 and 3.8. It includes fixes for common issues and steps to get additional help.</p>
<h3><strong>Common issues:</strong></h3>
<h3><strong>My agents are not showing up in Live Management.</strong></h3>
<ol>
<li>Log into the peadmin user account on the master. Run <code>mco ping</code>. If the agent doesn’t respond, see <strong>My agent is not responding to mco ping</strong> below.</li>
<li>Log into the root account on the master.</li>
<li>Stop <code>pe-memcached</code> by running <code>puppet resource service pe-memcached ensure=stopped</code>.</li>
<li>Start <code>pe-memcached</code> by running <code>puppet resource service pe-memcached ensure=running</code>.</li>
<li>Make sure you are using a supported browser. Check the list for your version of PE: <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/0ced872/pe/3.7/install_system_requirements.markdown">3.7</a>, <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/3.8/install_system_requirements.markdown">3.8</a>, <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/0ced872/pe/2015.2/install_system_requirements.markdown">2015.2</a>.</li>
</ol>
<p> </p>
<h3><strong>My agent is not responding to mco ping.</strong></h3>
<ol>
<li>To look for errors related to MCollective, run the following command on one of the agents that is not responding as root: <code>puppet agent -t --debug | grep mcollective</code>.</li>
<li>Is time in sync on your nodes? If not, run the following commands on the master as root, replacing <code>&lt;TIME SERVER&gt;</code> with your chosen time server:<br><br><code>puppet resource service ntpd ensure=stopped<br>ntpdate &lt;TIME SERVER&gt;<br>puppet resource service ntpd ensure=running<br><br></code>
</li>
<li>Check to see if ActiveMQ is running by running <code>service pe-activemq status</code> on the master. If it isn't, start it by running as root <code>puppet resource service pe-activemq ensure=running</code> as root on the master.</li>
<li>Check to see if MCollective is running on the master and one of the unresponsive  agents by running: <code>service pe-mcollective status</code>. If it isn’t, start it by running <code>puppet resource service pe-mcollective ensure=running</code> as root.</li>
</ol>
<p> </p>
<h3><strong>My <code>/var/lib/peadmin/.mcollective.d</code> has the wrong permissions.</strong></h3>
<ul>
<li>To correct the permissions, log in as the root user and run <code>chown peadmin .mcollective.d</code>. (This has been fixed by default in PE 3.8.)</li>
</ul>
<p> </p>
<h3><strong>Next steps:</strong></h3>
<p><a href="https://support.puppet.com/hc/en-us/articles/204923704-Generate-System-Information-by-Running-the-Support-Script">Generate system information by running the Support script</a>.</p>
