# Get debug-level logging information from a master for Puppet Enterprise 3.0 to 3.8
<p>Follow the steps below for your Puppet Enterprise version to turn on debug-level logging on the master and access the information it creates.</p>
<p><strong>Note:</strong> Before you send debug level logs to us, review them for sensitive information, such as hostnames and IP addresses.</p>
<p><strong>PE version:</strong> 3.0 to 3.8<br><strong>Tested on:</strong> 3.8.1, 3.7.2, 3.7.0, 3.3.2</p>
<p>For later versions, see:<br><a href="https://support.puppet.com/hc/en-us/articles/115000177368">Change the log level for PE services</a><br><a href="https://support.puppet.com/hc/en-us/articles/219821927">Changing the log level for Puppet Server for Puppet Enterprise 2015.3 and 2015.2</a></p>
<h3>Get debug-level logs from a PE 3.8 master</h3>
<p><strong>Solution:</strong></p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>Log in as root on the master.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Open <code>/etc/puppetlabs/puppetserver/logback.xml</code>. This is the logback control file for Puppet server.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Change <code>&lt;root level="info"&gt;</code> to <code>&lt;root level="debug"&gt;</code>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Stop <code>pe-puppetserver</code> by running <code>puppet resource service pe-puppetserver ensure=stopped</code>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Start <code>pe-puppetserver</code> by running <code>puppet resource service pe-puppetserver ensure=running</code>.<br><br><strong>Note:</strong> It will take a few minutes for <code>pe-puppetserver</code> to start.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>Your debug-level logs are in <code>/var/log/pe-puppetserver/puppetserver.log</code>. You can also access them by <a href="https://support.puppet.com/hc/en-us/articles/204923704">generating a Support script</a>.</p>
<p> </p>
<h3 id="problem-i-need-to-get-debug-level-logs-from-a-pe-3.7.x-master.">Get debug-level logs from a PE 3.7 master</h3>
<p><strong>Solution:</strong></p>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>
<p>Log in as root on the master.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Open <code>/etc/init.d/pe-puppetserver</code>. This is the <code>pe-puppetserver</code> init script.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Add a <code>--debug</code> flag to the end of the <code>JAVA_ARGS</code> string, as in the following example.</p>
<code>JAVA_ARGS="${JAVA_ARGS} -jar ${INSTALL_DIR}/${JARFILE} --config ${CONFIG} --bootstrap-config ${BOOTSTRAP_CONFIG} --debug"<br></code><br><strong>Note:</strong> Your <code>JAVA_ARGS</code> string might be different from this.</li>
<li>
<p>Stop <code>pe-puppetserver</code> by running <code>puppet resource service pe-puppetserver ensure=stopped</code>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Start <code>pe-puppetserver</code> by running <code>puppet resource service pe-puppetserver ensure=running</code>.<br><br><strong>Note:</strong> It will take a few minutes for <code>pe-puppetserver</code> to start.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>Your debug-level logs are in <code>/var/log/pe-puppetserver/puppetserver.log</code>. You can also access them by <a href="https://support.puppet.com/hc/en-us/articles/204923704">generating a Support script</a>.</p>
<p> </p>
<h3 id="problem-i-need-to-get-debug-level-logs-from-a-pe-master-with-version-number-between-3.0-and-3.3.x.">Get debug-level logs from a PE master with version number between 3.0 and 3.3</h3>
<p><strong>Solution:</strong></p>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>
<p>Log in as root on the master.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Open <code>/var/opt/lib/pe-puppetmaster/config.ru</code>.</p>
</li>
<li>Add the following lines to the end of the file, or uncomment the lines if they already exist but are commented out:<br><br><code>ARGV &lt;&lt; "--debug"</code><br><code>ARGV &lt;&lt; "--trace"</code><br><code>ARGV &lt;&lt; "--logdest" &lt;&lt; "/var/log/pe-puppet/master_debug.log"</code>
</li>
<li>
<p>Stop <code>pe-httpd</code> by running <code>puppet resource service pe-httpd ensure=stopped</code>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Start <code>pe-httpd</code> by running <code>puppet resource service pe-httpd ensure=running</code>.<br><br><strong>Note:</strong> It will take a few minutes for <code>pe-puppetserver</code> to start.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>Your debug-level logs are in <code>/var/log/pe-puppet/master_debug.log</code>.</p>
