# Fix camelcase hostname certificate errors in Puppet Enterprise 3.3.0
<p>I installed PE on an agent node that has uppercase characters in its hostname. The agent node cannot communicate with the master node or get its catalog, and when I run <code>puppet agent -t</code> I receive certificate mismatch or forbidden request errors.</p>
<h3>Version and installation information</h3>
<p><strong>PE version:</strong> 3.3.0</p>
<h3>Solution:</h3>
<p>In order for authentication to work, the certname for the agent in the certificate needs to be lowercase. The simplified installer copies the hostname into the certificate without converting it to lowercase. This causes a mismatch when trying to authenticate the certificate for that node. To fix the issue, regenerate the agent's certificates with lowercase names.<br> </p>
<ol>
<li>Log into the master as root.<br> </li>
<li>Run <code>puppet config set certname $(facter fqdn | tr '[:upper:]' '[:lower:]') --section=agent</code> to lowercase the agent’s FQDN.<br> </li>
<li>Run <code>puppet cert clean &lt;nodename&gt;</code> to delete the agent cert from the Puppet master.<br> </li>
<li>Run <code>puppet node deactivate &lt;nodename&gt;</code> to ensure that any resources exported by that node will stop appearing in the catalogs served to the remaining agent nodes.<br> </li>
<li>Remove the /etc/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl file on the affected agent.<br> </li>
<li>Run <code>puppet agent -t</code>, and your node will request a new all lowercase certificate.</li>
</ol>
