# Change the number of JRuby instances in Puppet Enterprise 3.7.2
<p><strong>PE version:</strong> 3.7.2</p>
<p><strong>For later versions:</strong> The steps to change the number of JRuby instances for later versions of PE are in our documentation. Here's a link to the <a href="https://puppet.com/docs/pe/2021.2/config_puppetserver.html#pe_puppet_server_conf_settings">latest version of the steps</a>. Make sure that you choose the documentation that matches your version of PE.</p>
<p>The default setting for the maximum number of JRuby instances for PE 3.7 is two plus the number of processors on your PE master node. For servers with a high number of CPUs, the default setting can lead to an over-provisioning of JRuby processes. Each process consumes resources such as RAM, CPU time, and open files. With too many JRuby processes, PE may behave inefficiently or consume more than the available amount of resources. For most PE environments, set the number of JRuby instances to one less than the number of processors on your PE master node, but usually not more than four. If you have several hundred nodes, you might specify more than four instances.</p>
<p><strong>Note:</strong> Conservatively, each JRuby process increases the amount of RAM used by <code>pe-puppetserver</code> by approximately 512MB. You might need to <a href="https://support.puppet.com/hc/en-us/articles/208088917-Changing-the-Java-Heap-Size-for-PuppetDB">adjust your Java heap</a> as you are adjusting the number of JRuby instances. To change the maximum number of JRuby instances:</p>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>
<p>Log into the master as root.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Locate the Hiera default settings file, <code>defaults.yaml</code>. By default, it's in <code>/var/lib/hiera/</code>, but that location can be changed. Check the <code>hierarchy</code> and <code>datadir</code> settings in <code>/etc/puppetlabs/puppet/hiera.yaml</code> to see if <code>defaults.yaml</code> is in a different location. If <code>defaults.yaml</code> doesn't exist yet, create it in <code>/var/lib/hiera/.</code></p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Add <code>puppet_enterprise::master::puppetserver::jruby_max_active_instances: &lt;number of instances&gt;</code> to the file if it is not there already. Set the number of instances to an appropriate value, usually between 1 and 4.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Run <code>puppet agent -t</code> on the master. The catalog run will indicate the change to the maximum number of JRuby instances. You can also verify the change in <code>/etc/puppetlabs/puppetserver/conf.d/pe-puppet-server.conf</code>. It should now contain a line similar to the following: <code>max-active-instances: &lt;number of instances&gt;.</code></p>
</li>
</ol>
