# Deactivate an ActiveMQ hub node in Puppet Enterprise 3.8
<p><strong>PE version:</strong> 3.8<br><strong>OS:</strong> RHEL 7</p>
<h3 id="solution">Solution</h3>
<p>To remove one of your nodes from the ActiveMQ Hub group in the node classifier, do the following steps.</p>
<p><strong>Note:</strong> These steps will remove the node as an ActiveMQ hub under PE management. For the node to stop functioning as an ActiveMQ hub, you also must make changes in <a href="http://activemq.apache.org/">ActiveMQ</a>.</p>
<ol>
<li>Log into the console.</li>
<li>Click <strong>Classification</strong> in the top navigation bar. Under <strong>Node group name</strong> field, select your ActiveMQ Hub group.<br><br><strong>Note:</strong> The ActiveMQ Hub group is not a default group and it could be named something else.</li>
<li>Remove the node from the ActiveMQ Hub group.<br><br><strong>For node groups that use rules:</strong><br><br>Find the rule that you want to edit or delete in order to remove the node from the ActiveMQ Hub group. Click <strong>Edit</strong> in the row for that rule and enter your rule changes. To delete the rule, click <strong>Remove</strong> in the row for that rule.<br><br><strong>For node groups that are pinned:</strong><br><br>In the <strong>Node name</strong> field, find the node you are removing from the Hub group. Click <strong>Unpin</strong>.</li>
<li>
<p>Click <strong>Commit 1 change</strong>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Log in as root to the node you removed from the ActiveMQ Hub group.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Update the node's classification by running <code>puppet agent -t</code>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>The <code>activemq.xml</code> file associated with ActiveMQ is not removed automatically, but it needs to be removed. Rather than deleting it, move it to a backup location by running <code>mv /etc/puppetlabs/activemq/activemq.xml /etc/puppetlabs/activemq_bak</code>. This lets you restore the node as an Active MQ hub if needed.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>You've removed the node from PE management as an Active MQ Hub node. For the node to stop functioning as an ActiveMQ hub, you also must make changes in <a href="http://activemq.apache.org/">ActiveMQ</a>.</p>
<p>For more information about ActiveMQ in PE, read <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/3.8/install_add_activemq.markdown">Additional ActiveMQ Hub and Spoke Installation</a>.</p>
