# Install an agent in Puppet Enterprise 3.8.0 with no internet access and different RHEL versions on the master and agent
<p>I installed PE 3.8.0 successfully on my master node with no internet access. When I try to install PE 3.8.0 on an agent node with a different OS and no internet access, I receive errors when running <code>curl -k https://&lt;master hostname&gt;:8140/packages/3.8.0/install.bash | sudo bash</code> and am not able to complete the installation.</p>
<h3 id="error-messages">Error messages</h3>
<p><code>Error getting repository data for pe_repo, repository not found</code><br><code>http://mirror.example.com/x86_64/repodata/repomd.xml: (28, 'Connection timed out after 30182 milliseconds')</code><br><code>Trying other mirror.</code><br><code>http://mirror.example2.com/x86_64/repodata/repomd.xml: [Errno 14] HTTP Error 404 - Not Found</code></p>
<p>You are receiving this error because you don't have a pe_repo class added to the PE Masters classifier group. To install an agent with a different OS than the Puppet master you must add the appropriate pe_repo class for your agent architecture to the PE Master node classifier group and then <code>curl</code> from the agent to the master to retrieve the necessary packages to install the agent.</p>
<h3 id="version-and-installation-information">Version and installation information</h3>
<p><strong>PE version:</strong> 3.8.0<br><strong>OS:</strong> Master: RHEL 6.5, Agent: RHEL 7.1<br><strong>Installation type:</strong> monolithic</p>
<h3 id="solution">Solution</h3>
<p>To deploy puppet on an agent with a 3.8.0 master, no internet connection on the master and agent machines, and different versions of the RHEL OS the agent and master, do the following steps.</p>
<p><strong>Note</strong>: You may have further problems installing the agent if you are missing <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/3.8/install_system_requirements.markdown#rhel">packages that are installed via the OS repos</a>.</p>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>
<p>On a machine with internet access, download the agent installer package by going to the <a href="https://puppet.com/misc/pe-files/previous-releases/3.8.0/">Previous Releases download page for PE 3.8.0</a>. Scroll down to <strong>Puppet Enterprise 3.8.0 Simplified Agent Packages</strong>. Download the appropriate package for the agent's OS, in this case, <code>puppet-enterprise-3.8.0-el-7-x86_64-agent.tar.gz</code>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Log into the master as root.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Place the downloaded installer tarball in the PE-provided repo, <code>/opt/puppet/staging/pe_repo</code>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Log into the console and click <strong>Classification</strong> in the top navigation bar.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>From the Classification page, select the <strong>PE Master</strong> group.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click the <strong>Classes</strong> tab.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>To find the pe_repo class that matches your agent nodes' architecture, in the <strong>Class name</strong> field, begin typing <code>pe_repo</code>. Select <code>pe_repo::platform::el_7_x86_64</code> from the list of classes.</p>
<p><strong>Note:</strong> The repo classes are listed as follows: <code>pe_repo::platform::&lt;agent_os_version_architecture&gt;</code>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click <strong>Add class</strong>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click <strong>Commit 1 change</strong>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>On the master, configure the <code>pe_repo::platform::el_7_x86_64</code> class on your nodes, and place the contents of the tarball in the staging directory in <code>/opt/puppet/packages/public</code>, by running <code>puppet agent -t</code>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Log into the node where you want to install the PE agent, as root.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Install the agent by running <code>curl -k https://&lt;master hostname&gt;:8140/packages/3.8.0/install.bash | sudo bash</code>.</p>
<p><strong>Note:</strong> This step requires connectivity between the agent and master, but does not require internet access.</p>
</li>
</ol>
