# PYCURL and repository metadata errors during an upgrade to Puppet Enterprise 3.3, 3.7 or 3.8
<p>While upgrading my agent, I receive a <code>PYCURL</code> error and can't complete the installation.</p>
<h3 id="error-messages">Error messages</h3>
<p><code>PYCURL ERROR 22 - "NSS: client certificate not found (nickname not specified)". Error: Cannot retrieve repository metadata (repomd.xml) for repository: puppetlabs-pepackages. Please verify its path and try again</code></p>
<p>These errors occur when permissions on the installation directory are incorrect. In order for the agent to upgrade successfully, permissions on the directory and its subdirectories must be 755 (drwxr-xr-x).</p>
<p><strong>Note:</strong> This error can occur during upgrade or installation.</p>
<h3 id="version-and-installation-information">Version and installation information</h3>
<p><strong>PE version:</strong><br>Master: 3.8, 3.7, 3.3<br>Agent: 3.8, 3.7, 3.3, 3.2<br><a href="https://support.puppet.com/hc/en-us/articles/216908938">See instructions for PE 2015.2</a><br><strong>OS:</strong> Any *nix</p>
<h3 id="solution">Solution</h3>
<p>Check and correct the permissions on the agent installer directory:</p>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>
<p>Log into the master as root.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Check what the current permissions for the agent installation directory and its subdirectories are by running <code>find /opt/puppet/packages/public/puppet-enterprise-3.2.3-&lt;platform&gt; -type d -ls</code>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>If the permissions for the directory and its subdirectories are not 755 (drwxr-xr-x), change them to 755 by running <code>chmod -R 755 /opt/puppet/packages/public/puppet-enterprise-3.2.3-&lt;platform&gt;/</code> where <code>&lt;platform&gt;</code> matches the name of the directory on your system.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Upgrade the agent.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>To learn more about *nix permissions, read <a href="https://www.elated.com/understanding-permissions/">Understanding File Permissions</a>.</p>
