# Basic RBAC troubleshooting in Puppet Enterprise 3.7, 3.8, and 2015.2
<p><strong>PE version:</strong> 3.7, 3.8, 2015.2</p>
<p>Puppet Enterprise (PE) connects to external Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP) directory services through PE's Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) service, allowing you to use existing users and user groups that have been set up in your external directory service. You may need to troubleshoot RBAC when you are unsuccessful in importing external users and groups through LDAP into PE.</p>
<p>Collect the following information before starting to troubleshoot RBAC issues:</p>
<ul>
<li>An LDIF (LDAP Data Interchange Format file) from a user or group with which you are attempting to authenticate, by running an <code>ldapsearch</code> query with OpenLDAP, or a <code>dsquery</code> query with Active Directory.</li>
<li>Your PE external directory settings. See <strong>Getting Your PE External Directory Settings</strong>, below.</li>
<li>A debug-level <code>console-services.log</code> from an unsuccessful attempt to log into the console using an external user or group. See <strong>Getting a Debug-Level <code>console-services.log</code></strong>, below.</li>
</ul>
<p>Comparing the LDIF with your PE external directory settings will reveal the most common RBAC issue: misconfiguration of your external directory settings in the console. The RBAC service sends queries to LDAP using external directory settings. If your external directory settings do not match the LDIF or are incorrect, you will not be able to import users and groups in PE. The most common misconfiguration issues are:</p>
<ul>
<li>Mismatched or incorrect relative distinguished names (RDNs)</li>
<li>Mismatched or incorrect lookup values</li>
<li>Mismatched casing</li>
<li>Special characters that are not escaped (common in PE 3.7.0 and PE 3.7.1)</li>
</ul>
<h3 id="getting-your-pe-external-directory-settings">Getting your PE external directory settings</h3>
<p>Log into the PuppetDB node (the master in a monolithic installation) as root, and run the following query to get your external directory settings.</p>
<p><strong>Note</strong>: You can ignore <code>permission denied</code> errors.</p>
<p><strong>For PE 3.7 and 3.8:</strong></p>
<pre>sudo -u pe-postgres /opt/puppet/bin/psql -d pe-rbac -c "SELECT row_to_json(row) FROM ( SELECT id,display_name,help_link,type,hostname,port,ssl,login,connect_timeout,base_dn,user_rdn,user_display_name_attr,user_email_attr,user_lookup_attr,group_rdn,group_object_class,group_name_attr,group_member_attr,group_lookup_attr FROM directory_settings) row"</pre>
<p><strong>For 2015.2:</strong></p>
<pre>sudo -u pe-postgres /opt/puppetlabs/server/bin/psql -d pe-rbac -c "SELECT row_to_json(row) FROM ( SELECT id,display_name,help_link,type,hostname,port,ssl,login,connect_timeout,base_dn,user_rdn,user_display_name_attr,user_email_attr,user_lookup_attr,group_rdn,group_object_class,group_name_attr,group_member_attr,group_lookup_attr FROM directory_settings) row"</pre>
<p><strong>Read more about connecting to external directories:</strong> <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/2015.2/rbac_ldap.md#connect-to-an-external-directory-service">2015.2</a>, <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/3.8/rbac_ldap.md#connect-to-an-external-directory-service">3.8</a>, <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/3.7/rbac_ldap.md#connect-to-an-external-directory-service">3.7</a></p>
<h3 id="getting-a-debug-level-console-services.log">Getting a debug-level <code>console-services.log</code>
</h3>
<p>In addition to the misconfiguration issues listed above, a debug-level log from an unsuccessful attempt to log into the console can provide information about:</p>
<ul>
<li>Connection and and authentication problems with LDAP directory services.</li>
<li>LDAP usernames that duplicate default PE user accounts. See the list of PE user accounts here: <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/2015.2/install_what_and_where.markdown#user-accounts">2015.2</a>, <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/3.8/install_what_and_where.markdown#user-accounts">3.8</a>, <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/3.7/install_what_and_where.markdown#user-accounts">3.7</a>.</li>
</ul>
<p>To get a debug-level log from an unsuccessful attempt to log into the console using an external user or group, do the following steps:</p>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>
<p>Change logging in the <code>console-services.log</code> to debug-level by editing <code>/etc/puppetlabs/console-services/logback.xml</code>, and changing <code>&lt;root level="info"&gt;</code> to <code>&lt;root level="debug"&gt;</code></p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Restart PE console processes by running:<br><code>puppet resource service pe-console-services ensure=stopped</code><br><code>puppet resource service pe-console-services ensure=running</code></p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Attempt to log into the console as an external user that has been having trouble logging in. The debugging information about connection, authentication, or account name problems will be captured in the <code>console-services.log</code> file.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p><strong>PE 3.7 and PE 3.8</strong>: The resulting <code>console-services.log</code> file is located at: <code>/var/log/pe-console-services/console-services.log</code>.</p>
<p><strong>PE 2015.2</strong>: The resulting <code>console-services.log</code> file is located at <code>/var/log/puppetlabs/console-services.log</code>.</p>
