# Resolve a license key permission error in Puppet Enterprise 2015.2 to 2017.2
<p>I added nodes to my installation and updated my license key in <code>/etc/puppetlabs/</code>. When I run <code>puppet license</code>, my license information displays correctly. However, when I log into the console, in the upper left corner there's a red license warning. I have sufficient licenses for all the nodes in my deployment, but it appears that I still have a complimentary 10 node license with no expiration date. When I run <code>puppet agent -t</code> it fails with an error 500. How do I resolve the issue?</p>
<h3 id="error-messages-and-logs">Error messages and logs</h3>
<p><strong>Error messages</strong></p>
<p><code>puppet agent -t</code> fails with the following error:</p>
<p><code>Error: Could not retrieve catalog from remote server: Error 500 on SERVER: Server Error: Evaluation Error: Error while evaluating a Resource Statement, Evaluation Error: Error while evaluating a Function Call, Permission denied - /etc/puppetlabs/license.key at /opt/puppetlabs/puppet/modules/puppet_enterprise/manifests/license.pp:9:22 on node master.example.com</code></p>
<p><strong>Logs:</strong></p>
<p>In <code>/var/log/puppetlabs/puppetserver/puppetserver.log</code>:</p>
<p><code>2017-04-05 18:10:33,969 ERROR [qtp2001459043-66] [puppetserver] Puppet Evaluation Error: Error while evaluating a Resource Statement, Evaluation Error: Error while evaluating a Function Call, Permission denied - /etc/puppetlabs/license.key at /opt/puppetlabs/puppet/modules/puppet_enterprise/manifests/license.pp:26:22 on node master.example.com</code></p>
<h3 id="version-and-installation-information">Version and installation information</h3>
<p><strong>PE version:</strong> 2015.x to 2017.2</p>
<h3 id="solution">Solution</h3>
<p>Permissions on the license file are incorrect. When PE can't read the license file, it defaults to using the complimentary 10 node license. In order for the license information to be updated and display correctly, permissions on <code>/etc/puppetlabs/license.key</code> must be 644.</p>
<p>Ensure permissions on the license file are 644.</p>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>
<p>Check permissions on the license file. On the master, run <code>ls -l /etc/puppetlabs/license.key</code></p>
</li>
<li>
<p>If permissions are not set to 644 (<code>-rw-r--r--</code>), change them to 644. On the master, run <code>chmod -R 644 /etc/puppetlabs/license.key</code></p>
</li>
<li>
<p>View the updated license information by logging into the console and clicking <strong>License</strong> in the navigation bar on the left side of the page.</p>
<p><strong>Note:</strong> If you update permissions while the License page is open, refresh the page to view updated license information.</p>
</li>
</ol>
