# Resolving an md5 hash error after an upgrade from Puppet Enterprise 3.7.2 to 3.8.2
<p>I upgraded my master from PE 3.7.2 to 3.8.2 but haven't upgraded my agents. When I run <code>puppet agent -t</code> on my Windows agent, I receive an md5 hash error.</p>
<h3 id="error-messages">Error messages</h3>
<pre><code>err change from {md5}f0afa58b5af0892a11a601d80a7a6286 to {md5}13731d27f1276cdd3314f7fa30aa5eb1 failed: Could not back up C:/ProgramData/PuppetLabs/mcollective/etc/plugins/mcollective/application/puppet.rb: Error 400 on SERVER: Got passed new contents for sum {md5}f0afa58b5af0892a11a601d80a7a6286 /Stage[main]/Puppet_enterprise::Mcollective::Server::Plugins/File[C:/ProgramData/PuppetLabs/mcollective/etc/plugins/mcollective/application/puppet.rb]/content 2015-10-14 01:02 UTC 
err Could not back up C:/ProgramData/PuppetLabs/mcollective/etc/plugins/mcollective/application/puppet.rb: Error 400 on SERVER: Got passed new contents for sum {md5}f0afa58b5af0892a11a601d80a7a6286 Puppet 2015-10-14 01:02 UTC </code></pre>
<p>When PE makes changes to files, it makes a backup copy of the original file to the filebucket. When there is corruption in the filebucket, you will see this error.</p>
<h3 id="version-and-installation-information">Version and installation information</h3>
<p><strong>PE version:</strong> 3.8.x master, 3.7.x agents<br> <strong>OS:</strong> RHEL 6 master, Windows 2012 R2 agents<br> <strong>Installation type:</strong> Split</p>
<h3 id="solution">Solution</h3>
<p>To resolve the error, move the directory associated with the md5 hash from the filebucket into a backup directory.</p>
<p><strong>Note</strong>: This article assumes that your filebucket is set to the default location <code>/var/opt/lib/pe-puppet/bucket/</code> in <code>site.pp</code>.</p>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>
<p>Log into the master as root.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Determine the hash-related filebucket path that is associated with the md5 hash after <code>for sum {md5}</code> in the error. The path has subdirectories based on the first eight characters in that hash, like this: <code>/var/opt/lib/pe-puppet/bucket&lt;/first/eight/characters/in/the/md5/hash/given/rest of the hash&gt;</code>. For example, for f0afa58b5af0892a11a601d80a7a6286, the hash-related path is <code>/var/opt/lib/pe-puppet/bucket/f/0/a/f/a/5/8/b/f0afa58b5af0892a11a601d80a7a6286</code>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Move the directory associated with the md5 hash to a backup directory by running <code>mv /var/opt/lib/pe-puppet/bucket/&lt;hash-related path&gt; /var/tmp/bucket/&lt;hash-related path&gt;</code>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>If the filebucket directory associated with the md5 hash continues to appear in the filebucket, delete it by running <code>rm -rf /var/opt/lib/pe-puppet/bucket/&lt;hash-related filebucket path&gt;</code>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Repeat steps 2-4 for each unique md5 hash that appears in the error.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>After all the filebucket hash directories that are mentioned in the error are moved, run <code>puppet agent -t</code> again on a Windows agent. If the error continues to appear, contact Support.</p>
</li>
</ol>
