# Install new agents into a non-production environment in Puppet Enterprise 3.8
<p>Learn how to install new agent nodes into a non-production environment to test changes before introducing the changes into your production environment.</p>
<h3 id="version-and-installation-information">Version and installation information</h3>
<p><strong>PE version:</strong> 3.8<br>(View instructions for PE <a href="https://support.puppet.com/hc/en-us/articles/215638898">2015.2</a>, <a href="https://support.puppet.com/hc/en-us/articles/215729597">3.7</a>)<br><a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/2015.3/console_classes_groups_environment_override.md" target="_self">Instructions for PE 2015.3</a> and later are in our documentation<br><strong>OS:</strong> Any *nix</p>
<h3 id="solution">Solution</h3>
<p>To add new agent nodes to a non-production environment so that you can test changes on them before putting those changes into production, you'll create the environment, and then assign the agents to two node groups: the default environment node group <strong>Agent-specified environment</strong> and a new classifier node group. This workflow avoids conflicts that can occur if a node is a member of two node groups with different environments.</p>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>
<p>Create the non-production <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/puppet/3.8/environments_creating.markdown">environment</a> for your new agent nodes. Name it <em>my_test_environment</em>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Log into the PE console.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click <strong>Classification</strong> in the navigation bar.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Create a classification node group with the following settings:<br><strong>Node group name</strong> - <em>my_new_agents</em><br><strong>Parent name</strong> - default<br><strong>Environment</strong> - <em>my_test_environment</em><br>Click <strong>Add Group</strong>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Set a rule on the <strong>Agent-specified environment</strong> to add your new agents to the environment. Click <strong>Classification</strong> in the navigation bar, click <em>test_env_group</em>, and fill in the <strong>Fact</strong>, <strong>Operator</strong>, and <strong>Value</strong> for the rule. Click <strong>Add rule</strong>. Click <strong>Commit 1 change</strong>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Set the same rule on your classification node group, <em>my_new_agents</em>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Install agents into your new environment by following the <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/3.8/install_agents.markdown">installation process for agents</a>, but add the <code>agent:environment</code> parameter to the end of the <code>curl</code> command as follows:</p>
<p><code>curl -k https://&lt;MASTER HOSTNAME&gt;:8140/packages/&lt;PE VERSION&gt;/install.bash | sudo bash -s agent:environment=my_test_environment</code></p>
<p><strong>Note</strong>: Match the <code>&lt;PE VERSION&gt;</code> to the version on your master, for example <code>3.8.3</code>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Run <code>puppet agent -t</code> to apply the classification. Verify that your agents are in the correct environment by running <code>puppet config print --section agent environment</code>. You can also verify that the correct nodes have been added to both of your new node groups by clicking <strong>Classification</strong> in the console navigation bar, selecting your node group, and clicking the <strong>Matching nodes</strong> tab.</p>
</li>
</ol>
