# Regenerate a compile master certificate in Puppet Enterprise 3.7 and 3.8
<p>The certificate for my compile master has been corrupted. How do I regenerate a certificate for it?</p>
<p>This article is for an end of life version of Puppet Enterprise. <a href="https://puppet.com/docs/pe/latest/regenerate_certificates.html" target="_self">Find up to date instructions in our documentation.</a></p>
<h3 id="version-and-installation-information">Version and installation information</h3>
<p><strong>PE version:</strong> 3.7, 3.8<br><a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/2016.1/compile_master_cert_regen.md">Instructions for PE 2016.1</a> and later are in our documentation <br><strong>OS:</strong> Any Unix<br><strong>Installation type:</strong> LEI (large environment installation) of more than 1000 nodes</p>
<h3 id="solution">Solution</h3>
<p>The following steps explain how to regenerate a certificate for a Puppet compile master node using PE's built-in certificate authority (CA).</p>
<p><strong>Unless otherwise indicated, the following steps are performed on your compile master nodes.</strong></p>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>
<p>Log into the master of masters (MoM) as root.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>On the MoM, run <code>puppet cert clean &lt;COMPILE MASTER HOSTNAME&gt;</code>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Log into the compile master node as root.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Back up the <code>/etc/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl/</code> directory by running <code>cp -r /etc/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl/ /etc/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl_bak/</code>.</p>
<p>If something goes wrong, you can restore this directory to keep your deployment functioning.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Stop the Puppet agent service by running <code>puppet resource service pe-puppet ensure=stopped</code>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Stop the MCollective service by running <code>puppet resource service pe-mcollective ensure=stopped</code>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Delete the compile master's SSL directory by running <code>rm -rf /etc/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl</code>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Remove the cached catalog by running <code>rm -f /var/opt/lib/pe-puppet/client_data/catalog/&lt;CERT NAME&gt;.json</code>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Start the Puppet agent service by running <code>puppet resource service pe-puppet ensure=running</code>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Start the MCollective service by running <code>puppet resource service pe-mcollective ensure=running</code></p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Log into the MoM as root.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>On the MoM, sign the compile master's certificate request by running <code>puppet cert --allow-dns-alt-names sign &lt;compile master hostname&gt;</code>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Log into the compile master as root.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Perform a full catalog run and allow the compile master to resume its role in your PE deployment by running <code>puppet agent -t</code>.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>If regenerating the certificate does not work, contact us so that we can help you secure your site.</p>
