# Classifying nodes in a Puppet Enterprise Red Hat Satellite 6 integration
<p>I've used Foreman to classify nodes being managed by Red Hat Satellite 6 and open source Puppet. Can I use Foreman to classify nodes being managed by the Puppet Enterprise Red Hat Satellite 6 integration?</p>
<h3 id="version-and-installation-information">Version and installation information</h3>
<p><strong>PE version:</strong> 2015.3, 2015.2, 3.8<br><strong>OS:</strong> RHEL 7.0</p>
<h3 id="solution">Solution</h3>
<p>Red Hat and Puppet collaborated on a <a href="https://puppet.com/integrations/red-hat/">supported integration between Puppet Enterprise and Red Hat Satellite 6</a> in which PE and Satellite 6 manage the initial and ongoing configuration of your RHEL and non-RHEL systems and PE updates Satellite 6 with facts and reports. The integration uses Puppet Enterprise to classify nodes that are under management. You cannot use Foreman as an external node classifier in this configuration.</p>
<p>The supported integration includes features from each product, with reporting available in both, as listed below.</p>
<p><strong>Puppet Enterprise:</strong></p>
<ul>
<li>Classification</li>
<li>Role assignment</li>
<li>Event inspector</li>
<li>Application Orchestration</li>
</ul>
<p><strong>Red Hat Satellite:</strong></p>
<ul>
<li>Puppet Enterprise agent installation</li>
<li>Operating system provisioning</li>
<li>Subscription management</li>
</ul>
<p><strong>Both:</strong></p>
<ul>
<li>Configuration reporting</li>
<li>Inventory reporting</li>
</ul>
<p><strong>Note:</strong> Do not install Puppet Enterprise on a Satellite 6 server. The Satellite 6 server manages itself.</p>
<p>Read more about the integration between Puppet Enterprise and Red Hat Satellite 6 from <a href="https://puppet.com/integrations/red-hat/">Puppet Labs</a> and <a href="https://www.redhat.com/en/blog/upcoming-changes-puppet-functionality-red-hat-satellite">Red Hat</a>.</p>
<p>Read more about the <a href="https://forge.puppet.com/modules/puppetlabs/satellite_pe_tools"><code>puppetlabs/satellite_pe_tools</code></a> module.</p>
