# Change the PuppetDB port in Puppet Enterprise 2015.2, 2016.1, and 2017.2
<p>I have a conflict on port 8081. How do I change the port that PuppetDB uses?</p>
<h3 id="version-and-installation-information">Version and installation information</h3>
<p><strong>PE version:</strong> 2015.2 (monolithic and split), 2016.1 (monolithic), 2017.2<br><a href="https://support.puppet.com/hc/en-us/articles/207360828">View instructions for PE 3.7 and 3.8<br></a><a href="https://support.puppet.com/hc/en-us/articles/360015641293">View instructions for PE 2019.8</a></p>
<p><strong>Note:</strong> The steps in this article do not work in 2015.3.</p>
<h3 id="solution">Solution:</h3>
<p>By default, PuppetDB communicates over port 8081. In some cases, this may conflict with existing services. You can change the port following the steps below.</p>
<h3 id="on-a-monolithic-installation">On a monolithic installation:</h3>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>
<p>Log into the console.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>From the console, click <strong>Nodes</strong>, then click <strong>Classification</strong> in the navigation bar.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Select the PE Infrastucture group, and click the <strong>Classes</strong> tab.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Under the <code>puppet_enterprise</code> class, locate the <code>puppetdb_port</code> parameter and edit it to be "xxxx" - including the "", replacing xxxx with your desired port number. Click <strong>Commit 1 change</strong>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Log into your Puppet master as root.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Run <code>puppet agent -t</code>.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p> </p>
<h3 id="on-a-split-installation">On a split installation:</h3>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>
<p>Log into the console.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>From the console, click <strong>Nodes</strong>, then click <strong>Classification</strong> in the navigation bar.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Select the PE Infrastucture group, and click the <strong>Classes</strong> tab.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Under the <code>puppet_enterprise</code> class, locate the <code>puppetdb_port</code> parameter and edit it to be "xxxx" - including the "", replacing xxxx with your desired port number. Click <strong>Commit 1 change</strong></p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Log into your Puppet master as root.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Open <code>/etc/puppetlabs/puppet/puppetdb.conf</code> and change the value for the port in the <code>server_urls</code> entry from 8081 to the desired port number.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Log into your PuppetDB node as root.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Open <code>/etc/puppetlabs/puppetdb/conf.d/jetty.ini</code> and change the value for the <code>ssl-port</code> setting so that it matches your desired port number.</p>
</li>
<li>Restart the <code>pe-puppetdb</code> service by running
<ul>
<li><code>puppet resource service pe-puppetdb ensure=stopped</code></li>
<li><code>puppet resource service pe-puppetdb ensure=running</code></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>Wait a few minutes for the changes to take effect.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Run <code>puppet agent -t</code>.</p>
</li>
</ol>
