# Changing the MCollective password in Puppet Enterprise 3.8
<p><strong>Important:</strong> Puppet Enterprise 2018.1 is the last release to support Marionette Collective, also known as MCollective. Future releases of PE will not include MCollective. For more information, see the <a href="https://puppet.com/products/puppet-enterprise/product-support-lifecycle/" target="_blank" rel="noopener">Puppet Enterprise support lifecycle</a>.</p>
<p>To prepare for these changes, <a title="Migrate MCollective" href="https://puppet.com/docs/pe/2018.1/migrating_from_mcollective_to_orchestrator.html">migrate your MCollective work to Puppet orchestrator</a> to automate tasks and create consistent, repeatable administrative processes. Use orchestrator to automate your workflows and take advantage of its integration with Puppet Enterprise console and commands, APIs, role-based access control, and event tracking.</p>
<hr>
<p>I want to change the MCollective password.</p>
<h3 id="version-and-installation-information">Version and installation information</h3>
<p><strong>PE version:</strong> 3.8<br><strong>OS:</strong> Any Unix<br><strong>Installation type:</strong> split</p>
<h3 id="solution">Solution</h3>
<p>You can change the MCollective password by using either the <a href="#console">console</a> or <a href="#hiera">hiera</a>. If you change the password in the console, it will override what's set in Hiera.</p>
<p><strong>Note:</strong> This password is stored in .xml format. Do not use &lt; or &amp; in your new password.</p>
<p><a name="console"></a> <strong>Using the console:</strong></p>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>
<p>Log into the console.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click <strong>Classification</strong> in the navigation bar, and select the <strong>PE Infrastructure</strong> node group. Click the <strong>Classes</strong> tab.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Under the <code>puppet_enterprise</code> class, select the <code>mcollective_middleware_password</code> parameter. Enter your new password in the <strong>Value</strong> box. Click <strong>Add parameter</strong>. Click **Commit 1 change.'</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click <strong>Classification</strong>. Select the <strong>PE ActiveMQ Broker</strong> group. Click the <strong>Classes</strong> tab.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Under the <code>puppet_enterprise::profile::amq::broker class</code>, select the <code>stomp_password</code> parameter. Enter your new password from step three in the <strong>Value</strong> box. Click <strong>Add parameter</strong>. Click <strong>Commit 1 change</strong>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Log into the master as root.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Run <code>puppet agent -t</code>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>If you have ActiveMQ hubs, log into each ActiveMQ hub as root and run <code>puppet agent -t</code>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Verify the change by checking that the password value has been updated in the following files on the master: <code>/etc/puppetlabs/activemq/activemq.xml</code> and <code>/etc/puppetlabs/mcollective/server.cfg</code>.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p><a name="hiera"></a> <strong>Using Hiera:</strong></p>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>
<p>Log into the master as root.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>To update the password using Hiera, you will add information to <code>defaults.yaml</code> in the Hiera data directory (<code>datadir</code>). The location of the <code>datadir</code> is set in <code>hiera.yaml</code>. Find <code>hiera.yaml</code> by running <code>puppet config print | grep hiera_config</code>. Open <code>hiera.yaml</code>. The location for the <code>datadir</code> may be explicitly set in the <code>:yaml:</code> stanza. If not, your <code>datadir</code> is in the default location, <code>/var/lib/hiera</code>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>If you do not have <code>defaults.yaml</code> in your <code>datadir</code>, create it. Add the following to <code>defaults.yaml</code>, replacing with your new password.</p>
<ul>
<li><code>puppet_enterprise::mcollective_middleware_password: &lt;NEW PASSWORD&gt;</code></li>
<li><code>puppet_enterprise::profile::amq::broker::stomp_password: &lt;NEW PASSWORD&gt;</code></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>Run <code>puppet agent -t</code>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>If you have ActiveMQ hubs, log into each ActiveMQ hub as root and run <code>puppet agent -t</code>.</p>
</li>
<li>On the master, restart the <code>pe-mcollective</code> service by running:
<ul>
<li><code>puppet resource service pe-mcollective ensure=stopped</code></li>
<li><code>puppet resource service pe-mcollective ensure=running</code></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>Verify the change by checking that the password value has been updated in the following files on the master: <code>/etc/puppetlabs/activemq/activemq.xml</code> and <code>/etc/puppetlabs/mcollective/server.cfg</code>.</p>
</li>
</ol>
