# PuppetDB: Database maintenance and size for Puppet Enterprise 2015.3 and 2015.2
<p><strong>PE version:</strong> 2015.3, 2015.2</p>
<p><strong>Other versions: </strong>View instructions for <a href="https://support.puppet.com/hc/en-us/articles/204924364">PE 3.2 to 3.8.</a><br>For recent versions, you can use the <a href="https://forge.puppet.com/modules/puppetlabs/pe_databases"><code>puppetlabs-pe_databases</code></a> module to back up, maintain, and tune your Puppet Enterprise databases.</p>
<p><strong>Note:</strong> This article assumes that PostgreSQL is installed in <code>/opt/puppetlabs/server/bin/psql</code>. If you are using an external PostgreSQL instance, modify the commands to work for the correct path to your PostgreSQL instance.</p>
<p>Run all PostgreSQL commands on the PuppetDB node, which is the master in a monolithic installation.</p>
<h3 id="how-do-i-maintain-my-databases">How do I maintain my databases?</h3>
<p>See Maintaining the console &amp; databases for PE for <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/2015.3/maintain_console-db.markdown">2015.3</a> and <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/2015.2/maintain_console-db.markdown">2015.2</a>.</p>
<h3 id="how-do-i-check-the-size-of-my-databases-on-disk">How do I check the size of my databases on disk?</h3>
<p>To check the size of the directories that house your databases, run <code>du -sh /opt/puppetlabs/server/data/postgresql/9.4</code> on the PuppetDB node.</p>
<h3 id="how-do-i-check-the-size-of-each-database">How do I check the size of each database?</h3>
<p>To see a list of all databases and their sizes, run <code>su - pe-postgres -s /bin/bash -c "/opt/puppetlabs/server/bin/psql -c '\l+'"</code> on the PuppetDB node.</p>
<p>To see information for all of the tables within a specific database, run <code>su - pe-postgres -s /bin/bash -c "/opt/puppetlabs/server/bin/psql -d &lt;DATABASE NAME&gt; -c '\d+'"</code>. For example, to show table sizes in <code>pe-puppetdb</code>, run <code>su - pe-postgres -s /bin/bash -c "/opt/puppetlabs/server/bin/psql -d pe-puppetdb -c '\d+'"</code>.</p>
<h3 id="how-do-i-figure-out-which-nodes-have-too-many-resources">How do I figure out which nodes have too many resources?</h3>
<p>If you have a lot of resources on a few nodes, you can reduce the number of resources per node. To determine which nodes are the best candidates for this, run the following query, which will return the 15 nodes with the most resources. If running the query on 15 nodes doesn't return enough information, return the 100 nodes with the most resources by changing 15 to 100.</p>
<p><code>su - pe-postgres -s /bin/bash -c "/opt/puppetlabs/server/bin/psql -d 'pe-puppetdb' -c 'select certname,count(*) as num_resources from catalog_resources cr join catalogs c on cr.catalog_id=c.id group by certname order by num_resources desc limit 15;'"</code></p>
<h3 id="my-database-is-getting-very-big.-what-can-i-do-to-reduce-the-size">My database is getting very big. What can I do to reduce the size?</h3>
<p>The easiest way to make your database smaller is to reduce the number of days of reports that you keep. The following query will return the date of your oldest report:</p>
<p><code>su - pe-postgres -s /bin/bash -c "/opt/puppetlabs/server/bin/psql -d pe-puppetdb -c 'SELECT MIN(receive_time) FROM reports'"</code></p>
<p>By default, PE will keep 14 days of reports. To reduce the number of days of reports that you keep:</p>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>Log into the console.</li>
<li>In the navigation bar, click <strong>Nodes &gt; Classification</strong>.</li>
<li>Select the <strong>PE PuppetDB</strong> node group and click the <strong>Classes</strong> tab.</li>
<li>To change the number of days of reports to seven days, under the <code>puppet_enterprise::profile::puppetdb</code>class, locate the <code>report-ttl</code> parameter and edit the <strong>Value</strong> to be <em>7d</em>. For a different number of days, replace seven with another number.</li>
<li>Click <strong>Add parameter</strong>. Click <strong>Commit 1 change</strong>.</li>
<li>
<p>On the PuppetDB node, run <code>puppet agent -t</code>. You should see output similar to the following:</p>
<p><code>Notice: /Stage[main]/Puppet_enterprise::Puppetdb::Database_ini/Pe_ini_setting[puppetdb_report_ttl]/value: value changed '14d' to '7d'</code>.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<h3 id="too-late-i-am-running-out-of-disk-space.-what-should-i-do">Too late; I am running out of disk space. What should I do?</h3>
<p>You can reindex the database. This optimization process will rewrite the database to an entirely new file. This requires double the database's disk space to complete, so you might need to add more space to the disk.</p>
<p>Reindex the data by running the following command on the PuppetDB node:</p>
<p><code>su - pe-postgres -s /bin/bash -c "vacuumdb -z --verbose pe-puppetdb" 2&gt;&amp;1 | tee reindex.txt</code>.</p>
<p>Review detailed log information about the reindexing process by opening <code>reindex.txt</code>.</p>
