# Resolve SELinux access errors with MCollective log rotation in Puppet Enterprise 2015.2, 2016.4, and 2017.3
<p><strong>Important:</strong> Puppet Enterprise 2018.1 was the last release to support Marionette Collective, also known as MCollective. Future releases of PE do not include MCollective. </p>
<p>To prepare for these changes, <a title="Migrate MCollective" href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/2018.1/migrating_from_mcollective_to_orchestrator.md">migrate your MCollective work to Puppet orchestrator</a> to automate tasks and create consistent, repeatable administrative processes. Use orchestrator to automate your workflows and take advantage of its integration with Puppet Enterprise console and commands, APIs, role-based access control, and event tracking.</p>
<hr>
<p>MCollective logs are not being rotated even when rotation is forced. I have SELinux alerts in <code>var/log/messages</code>.</p>
<h3 id="log-alerts">Log alerts</h3>
<p><code>Nov 30 03:34:06 prdexp setroubleshoot: SELinux is preventing /bin/bash from execute access on the file /etc/rc.d/init.d/mcollective. For complete SELinux messages. run sealert -l fc975257-2ac9-445e-aaf3-c5ec93447a8a</code></p>
<p>SELinux labels processes and files with a context that contains information about users, roles, and types, which controls access to files and processes. There is a known issue where nodes running SELinux can have incorrect context on <code>/etc/rc.d/init.d/mcollective</code> preventing log rotation.</p>
<h3 id="version-and-installation-information">Version and Installation Information</h3>
<p><strong>PE Version:</strong> PE 2015.2, 2016.4, and 2017.3<br><strong>OS:</strong> RHEL 6.6<br><strong>Installation Type:</strong> Monolithic</p>
<h3 id="solution">Solution</h3>
<p>In order to resolve the log rotation issue, you must correct the context to allow execute access to <code>/etc/rc.d/init.d/mcollective</code>.</p>
<p><strong>Note:</strong> This solution will update all of your nodes, please test it before introducing it in your production environment.</p>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>
<p>Log into the master as root.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Check the context of the file by running <code>ls -Z /etc/rc.d/init.d/mcollective</code>The desired context is:</p>
<p><code>-rwxr-xr-x root root system_u:object_r:initrc_exec_t:s0 /etc/rc.d/init.d/mcollective</code></p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Create the following module in <code>/etc/puppetlabs/code/modules/file_context_fix/manifests/init.pp</code>. When applied, it will change the context to <code>initrc_exec_t</code> and restart the <code>mcollective</code> service, which will allow execute access to <code>/etc/rc.d/init.d/mcollective</code>. The command will be run on nodes with SELinux where the file context is <code>openshift_initrc_t</code> or <code>logrotate_t</code>.</p>
<pre>class file_context_fix {
    exec { 'change_mco_file_context':
    command =&gt; '/usr/sbin/semanage fcontext -a -t initrc_exec_t "/etc/rc\.d/init\.d/mcollective"; /sbin/restorecon /etc/rc.d/init.d/mcollective; /sbin/service mcollective restart',
    onlyif =&gt; '/bin/ps -efZ | /bin/grep mcollective | /bin/grep -v grep | /bin/egrep "openshift_initrc_t|logrotate_t"',

    }
}
</pre>
</li>
<li>
<p>Ensure that you have installed the SELinux <code>policycoreutils-python</code> package to manage your SELinux nodes.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Log into the console.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click <strong>Nodes &gt; Classification</strong>, then click the <strong>All Nodes</strong> group. Select the <strong>Classes</strong> tab.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>In the <strong>Add new class</strong> field, enter <em>file_content_fix</em>. You might have to click <strong>Refresh</strong> on the right side of the tab to see the module. Click <strong>Add class</strong>, then click <strong>Commit 1 change</strong>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>On the master, verify that the context of the file is correct by running <code>ls -Z /etc/rc.d/init.d/mcollective</code>. The context should be corrected to:</p>
<p><code>-rwxr-xr-x root root system_u:object_r:initrc_exec_t:s0 /etc/rc.d/init.d/mcollective</code>.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>With the context corrected, log rotation should work correctly.</p>
