# Resolving a segmented key error in Puppet Enterprise 2015.3 and 2015.2
<p>When I run <code>puppet agent -t</code> I get a segmented key error. How do I resolve it?</p>
<h3 id="error-message">Error message</h3>
<p><code> Error: Could not retrieve catalog from remote server: Error 400 on SERVER: Evaluation Error: Error while evaluating a Function Call, Resolution type :hash is illegal when doing segmented key lookups at /etc/puppetlabs/puppet/environments/&lt;PATH TO A MODULE MANIFEST&gt;:8:32 on node server.example.com </code></p>
<p>Hiera takes a lookup key and returns a single value of some simple or complex data type. In PE 2015.3 and 2015.2 you can chain subkeys together to represent nested data structures. The portion of the key before the first <code>.</code> (dot or period) acts as a primary subkey and each of the items separated by dots is a secondary subkey. For example, if you use an FQDN such as <code>server.example.com</code> as a lookup key, Hiera treats <code>server</code> as a primary subkey, and <code>example</code> and <code>com</code> as secondary subkeys. If you do not have a hash, array, or other nested data structure that matches <code>server.example.com</code> you will get a segmented key error.</p>
<h3 id="version-and-installation-information">Version and installation information</h3>
<p><strong>PE version:</strong> 2015.3, 2015.2<br><strong>OS:</strong> Any *nix</p>
<h3 id="solution">Solution</h3>
<p>There are two ways to resolve the error:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>Open the manifest named in the error and remove <code>.</code>(dot) from the lookup key. This is the preferred fix, because in PE 2016.1 and later releases, you can no longer use <code>.</code> (dot) in lookup keys.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Ensure that you have a data structure that matches the lookup keys in the manifest named by the error.</p>
</li>
</ul>
<p><a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/hiera/3.0/lookup_types.markdown">Read more about Hiera lookup keys</a>.</p>
