# Enable protocol security in Razor with a custom certificate authority in Puppet Enterprise
<p>When you're using PE and install Razor on a Puppet-managed node, protocol security using HTTPS and TLS/SSL is enabled by default. However, if you want to use your own CA certificate or you're using Razor in an environment that's not Puppet-managed, you must secure communication between the Razor server and client.</p>
<h3 id="version-and-installation-information">Version and installation information</h3>
<p><strong>PE version:</strong> 3.7 to 2019.2<br> <strong>OS:</strong> Any Unix</p>
<h3 id="solution">Solution</h3>
<p>Complete the following steps to configure communication ports for the Razor server and to configure communication between the Razor server and client.</p>
<h4 id="configure-communication-ports-for-the-razor-server">Configure communication ports for the Razor server</h4>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>
<p>Configure HTTP communication on port 8150 and HTTPS communication on port 8151.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>In the config.yaml file, located on your master at <code>/etc/puppetlabs/razor-server/config.yaml</code>, make sure that <code>secure_api</code> is set to <code>true</code>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Use your own <code>.jks</code> or <code>.ks</code> file or self-sign a certificate.</p>
<p>You might already have a <code>.jks</code> or <code>.ks</code> file that you are using for communication between the Razor server and client. If not, create a self-signed certificate file called <code>keystore.jks</code> in your current working directory by running the Java <code>keytool</code> command on your master:</p>
<code>keytool -genkey -keyalg RSA -alias selfsigned -keystore keystore.jks -storepass password -keypass password -validity 3600 -keysize 2048 -dname "CN=Unknown, OU=Unknown, O=Unknown, L=Unknown, S=Unknown, C=Unknown"</code>
<p><strong>Note</strong>: The default password for <code>keytool</code> is <code>password</code>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Configure Torquebox by adding a web connector in the <code>standalone.xml.erb</code> file:</p>
<p>The location of the <code>standalone.xml.erb</code> file varies. On the puppet master, use the command <code>find / -name standalone.xml.erb</code> to locate it. Edit the file to add the connector as follows:</p>
<code> &lt;connector name="https" protocol="HTTP/1.1" scheme="https" socket-binding="https" secure="true"&gt; &lt;ssl name="https" key-alias="&lt;%= @java_ssl_alias %&gt;" password-file="&lt;PATH_TO_A_PLAINTEXT_PASSWORD_FILE&gt;" </code>
</li>
</ol>
