# Use the command line to bootstrap a new Puppet Enterprise 2015.3 installation with Code Manager
<p>Using the CLI, automate the installation of PE and deployment of Code Manager from your Git repository by:</p>
<ul>
<li>Creating an answer file</li>
<li>Installing PE</li>
<li>Creating a user with code deployment permissions</li>
<li>Generating an authentication token</li>
<li>Deploying your code</li>
</ul>
<h3 id="version-and-installation-information">Version and installation information</h3>
<p><strong>PE version:</strong> 2016.1, 2015.3<br><strong>Installation type:</strong> Monolithic, split</p>
<p>Complete the following steps:</p>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>
<p><a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/2015.3/install_automated.markdown">Create answer files</a>.</p>
<strong>Tip:</strong> You can use the web-based installer to create answer files. A monolithic installation will generate one answer file, a split will generate three, one for the master node, one for the console node, and one for the PuppetDB node.</li>
<li>
<p>Enable Code Manager and add your code repo's information to PE. For a monolithic installation, add the following to your answer file. For a split installation, add it to your console node's answer file.</p>
<p><code>  q_puppetmaster_r10k_remote='&lt;your git repo's SSH URL, for example, git@github.com:user/control-repo.git&gt;'<br>
  q_puppetmaster_r10k_private_key='&lt;the path to your SSH private key, for example /etc/control_repo_id&gt;'<br>
  q_puppetmaster_code_manager_auto_configure=y</code></p>
</li>
<li>
<p><a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/2015.3/install_automated.markdown">Install PE using your answer files.</a></p>
</li>
<li>
<p>As root, log into the master.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Create a user named <em>deploy</em> which PE will use to deploy code, replacing <code>&lt;EMAIL&gt;</code> with the user's email address and <code>&lt;PASSWORD&gt;</code> with a password:</p>
<p><code>  curl -X POST -H 'Content-Type: application/json' --cert $(puppet config print hostcert) --key $(puppet config print hostprivkey) --cacert $(puppet config print cacert) https://$(grep server /etc/puppetlabs/puppet/classifier.yaml |cut -d" " -f 2):4433/rbac-api/v1/users -d '{"login":"deploy","email":"&lt;EMAIL&gt;","display_name":"Deploy User","role_ids": [2],"password":"&lt;PASSWORD&gt;"}'</code></p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Create a directory for the authentication token: <code>mkdir ~/.puppetlabs</code></p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Generate an authentication token for the <em>deploy</em> user with a lifespan of 60 minutes, using the same password set in step 5:</p>
<p><code>curl -X POST -H 'Content-Type: application/json' --cacert $(puppet config print cacert) https://$(grep server /etc/puppetlabs/puppet/classifier.yaml |cut -d" " -f 2):4433/rbac-api/v1/auth/token -d '{"login":"deploy","password":"&lt;PASSWORD&gt;","lifetime":"60m"}' |python -c 'import sys, json; print json.load(sys.stdin)["token"]' &gt; ~/.puppetlabs/token</code></p>
<p><strong>Tip</strong>: You can <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/2015.3/rbac_token_auth.md#generating-a-token-using-the-api-endpoint">customize the lifespan of the token</a>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Manually deploy your code by running:</p>
<p><code>curl -k -X POST -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -H "X-Authentication: $(cat ~/.puppetlabs/token)" https://localhost:8170/code-manager/v1/deploys -d '{"deploy-all": true, "wait": true}'</code></p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Automate code deployment by configuring a webhook or a writing a custom script.</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>Configuring a <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/2015.3/code_mgr_webhook.md">webhook</a> is the simpler method.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Writing a <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/2015.3/code_mgr_webhook.md">custom script</a> is a better alternative if you have requirements such as existing continuous integration systems, privately hosted Git repos, or custom notifications.</p>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ol>
