# Install PE-only modules without internet access for Puppet Enterprise 2015.2 to 2016.1
<p>How do I install a PE-only module on a machine that doesn't have internet access?</p>
<h3 id="version-and-installation-information">Version and installation information</h3>
<p><strong>PE version:</strong> 2016.1, 2015.3, 2015.2<br><strong>OS:</strong> Any *nix</p>
<p>Depending on the security requirements of your infrastructure, you might have a Puppet master (or master of masters) that does not have access to the internet. Such Puppet masters can't download and install modules available only to PE customers (for example, the <code>puppetlabs-vsphere</code> module). You can only install these modules using the <code>puppet module install</code> command run from a Puppet master with a PE license and internet access.</p>
<p>The following procedures explain how to install PE-only modules when your Puppet master has no internet access.</p>
<h2 id="step-1-download-the-module">Step 1: Download the module</h2>
<p>To download the module, you need a machine that does have internet access, and with part of PE installed on it, enough to do module installation. There are two options:</p>
<ul>
<li>Install a Puppet master on the internet-connected machine. This option uses only one installer but requires stopping unnecessary services after installation.
<p>or</p>
</li>
<li>Install a Puppet agent on the internet-connected machine, and modify it to download modules. This option is cleaner than installing a Puppet master because it does not create many extra resources. However, it does require some extra setup steps, including installing multiple packages and installing the <code>pe-license</code> package separately.</li>
</ul>
<p>Review the following procedures to determine which one best suits your needs.</p>
<h3 id="option-1-install-a-puppet-master-and-download-the-module">Option 1: Install a Puppet master and download the module</h3>
<p>With this option, you install a Puppet master on a machine that can access the internet.</p>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>
<p>Set up a machine that can access the internet.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><a href="https://puppet.com/misc/pe-files/previous-releases">Download</a> a PE installation tarball or use the one you already have.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Create an empty text file, and run the PE installer pointed at the empty file: <code>sudo ./puppet-enterprise-installer -A &lt;blankfile&gt;.txt</code></p>
</li>
<li>
<p>When prompted by the installer, select the defaults except for the following questions:</p>
</li>
<ol style="list-style-type: lower-alpha;">
<li>
<p><strong>Install PuppetDB and console on this node?</strong>: Select <strong>n</strong>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>Hostname for contacting PuppetDB?</strong>: Enter placeholder text. You are not configuring PuppetDB for this process.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>Hostname for contacting the console?</strong>: Enter placeholder text. You are not configuring the console for this process.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<li>
<p>After the installation completes, stop the <code>puppet</code> and <code>pe-puppetserver</code> services:</p>
</li>
</ol><ul>
<li><code>puppet resource service puppet ensure=stopped</code></li>
<li><code>puppet resource service pe-puppetserver ensure=stopped</code></li>
</ul>
<li>
<p>Install the PE-only module into a temporary directory. For example, run <code>puppet module install puppetlabs-vsphere --target-dir /tmp</code>.</p>
</li>

<p>After the module downloads, transfer it through your infrastructure depending on your module installation method.</p>
<h3 id="option-2-install-and-modify-a-puppet-agent-and-download-the-module">Option 2: Install and modify a Puppet agent, and download the module</h3>
<p>With this option, you install a Puppet agent on a machine that can access the internet. Note that this Puppet agent should not be connected to your existing infrastructure.</p>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>
<p>Set up a machine that can access the internet.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><a href="https://puppet.com/misc/pe-files/previous-releases">Download</a> the appropriate Puppet agent.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Install the agent package. For example, for a RHEL 7 agent, run <code>rpm -i puppet-agent-1.3.6-1.el7.x86_64.rpm</code>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Install your PE license key on the Puppet agent in the <code>/etc/puppetlabs/</code> directory.</p>
<p><strong>Tip:</strong> Find the PE license key on the Puppet master at <code>/etc/puppetlabs/license.key</code>.</p>
</li>
<li>Copy the <code>pe-license</code> package from your Puppet master to the agent and install it by running <code>rpm -i pe-license-0.1.5.7-1.pe.&lt;PLATFORM&gt;.noarch.rpm</code>.
<p><strong>Tip:</strong> Find the PE license package in the PE installation tarball, in the <code>packages/public/&lt;PE VERSION&gt;/&lt;PLATFORM AND ARCH&gt;/</code> directory.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Open the agent's <code>puppet.conf</code> file in an editor, and in the <code>[main]</code> section, add <code>module_groups = base+pe_only</code>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Install the PE-only module into a temporary directory. For example, run <code>/opt/puppetlabs/bin/puppet module install puppetlabs-vsphere --target-dir /tmp</code>.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>After the module downloads, transfer it through your infrastructure depending on your installation method.</p>
<h2 id="step-2-install-the-module">Step 2: Install the module</h2>
<p>You have two options:</p>
<ul>
<li>If you're using Code Manager or r10k to manage your Puppet environments, add the module to your internal repo to make it available.
<p>or</p>
</li>
<li>If you're not using Code Manager, install the module directly on the Puppet master.</li>
</ul>
<h3 id="option-1-install-the-module-using-code-manager">Option 1: Install the module using Code Manager</h3>
<p>Transfer the module into your Git repo and add it to your control repo's Puppetfile:</p>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>
<p>Check the module into your Git repo and copy the commit SHA.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>In your control repo, edit your Puppetfile to add the path to the module and the commit SHA. For example:</p>
<pre>mod 'puppetlabs/vsphere',
  :git =&gt; 'https://gitlab.company.net/puppet/puppetlabs-vsphere',
  :ref =&gt; '00526d86dfb3487d9be893cbd3698c362132b6ac'</pre>
</li>
</ol>
<p><strong>Note:</strong> Repeat this process whenever you update the module.</p>
<h3 id="option-2-install-the-module-directly-on-the-puppet-master">Option 2: Install the module directly on the Puppet master</h3>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>
<p>Create a tarball of the downloaded module. For example, run <code>tar -czf puppetlabs-vsphere.tar.gz vsphere</code>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Copy the tarball to your Puppet master.</p>
<p><strong>Tip:</strong> If your download machine does not have network access to the Puppet master, transfer the tarball with some transferable media.</p>
</li>
<li>Install the module on the Puppet master. For example, run <code>puppet module install -f ./puppetlabs-vsphere.tar.gz</code>.</li>
</ol>
<p>If you have compile masters, perform steps 2 and 3 on each compile master.</p>
<p><strong>Note:</strong> Repeat this process whenever you update the module.</p>
<h2 id="troubleshooting">Troubleshooting</h2>
<h3 id="license-or-license-package-invalid-or-not-properly-installed">License or license package invalid or not properly installed</h3>
<p>If your PE license or license package is invalid or not properly installed, you will see the following error:</p>
<pre><code># puppet module install puppetlabs-vsphere --target-dir /tmp
Notice: Preparing to install into /tmp ...
Notice: Downloading from https://forgeapi.puppetlabs.com ...
Error: Request to Puppet Forge failed.
  The server being queried was https://forgeapi.puppetlabs.com/v3/releases?module=puppetlabs-vsphere
  The HTTP response we received was '403 Forbidden'
  The message we received said 'You must have a valid Puppet Enterprise license on this node in order to download puppetlabs-vsphere. If you have a Puppet Enterprise license, please see https://docs.puppetlabs.com/pe/latest/modules_installing.html#puppet-enterprise-modules for more information.'</code></pre>
<p>To correct this issue, ensure that you have a valid license installed in the <code>/etc/puppetlabs</code> directory.</p>
<h3 id="puppet.conf-not-properly-configured">
<code>puppet.conf</code> not properly configured</h3>
<p>If you did not edit the <code>[main]</code> section of <code>puppet.conf</code> to contain <code>module_groups = base+pe_only</code>, you will see the following error:</p>
<pre><code># puppet module install puppetlabs-vsphere --target-dir /tmp
Notice: Preparing to install into /tmp ...
Notice: Downloading from https://forgeapi.puppetlabs.com ...
Error: Could not install 'puppetlabs-vsphere' (latest)
  No releases are available from https://forgeapi.puppetlabs.com
    Does 'puppetlabs-vsphere' have at least one published release?</code></pre>
<p>To correct this error, ensure that the <code>puppet.conf</code> file is configured correctly.</p>
