# Duplicate declaration error when managing /usr/local in Puppet Enterprise 3.8 to 2019.1
<p>I added the following to a manifest to manage the ownership and permissions for <code>/usr/local</code>:</p>
<pre><code>  file {'/usr/local':
    owner =&gt; root,
    group =&gt; root,
    mode =&gt; '0755',
  }</code></pre>
<p>Now, when I run <code>puppet agent -t</code>, I get an <code>Error 400</code> or <code>500</code>. How do I resolve this?</p>
<h3 id="error-message">Error message</h3>
<p><code>Error: Could not retrieve catalog from remote server: Error 400 on SERVER: Duplicate declaration: File[/usr/local] is already declared in file &lt;your manifest&gt;; cannot redeclare at /opt/puppet/share/puppet/modules/puppet_enterprise/manifests/symlinks.pp:36 on node &lt;your node&gt; Warning: Not using cache on failed catalog Error: Could not retrieve catalog; skipping run</code></p>
<p>Or</p>
<p><code>Error: Could not retrieve catalog from remote server: Error 500 on SERVER: Server Error: Evaluation Error: Error while evaluating a Resource Statement, Evaluation Error: Error while evaluating a Resource Statement, Duplicate declaration: File[/usr/local] is already declared at (file: /opt/puppetlabs/puppet/modules/puppet_enterprise/manifests/symlinks.pp, line: 32); cannot redeclare</code></p>
<p>You received this error because the PE <code>puppet_enterprise</code> module manages symlinks for <code>/usr/local</code> and <code>/usr/local/bin</code>. The module includes file resources for both directories. PE management of these directories includes ensuring that resources exist before creating symlinks to Puppet Enterprise executables. To manage <code>/usr/local</code> and <code>/usr/local/bin</code> with your own manifests, thereby resolving the error, disable PE's management of symlinks for <code>puppet_enterprise</code> in either the console or Hiera.</p>
<h3 id="version-and-installation-information">Version and installation information</h3>
<p><strong>PE version:</strong> 3.8 to 2019.1</p>
<h3 id="solution">Solution</h3>
<p>Disable Puppet Enterprise management of the <code>/usr/local</code> or <code>/usr/local/bin</code> directories in either the PE console or Hiera.</p>
<p><strong>Note</strong>: Parameter values set in the console will override values set in Hiera.</p>
<p><strong>To disable the setting in the console: </strong>Set the <code>manage_symlinks</code> parameter in the <code>puppet_enterprise</code> class in the <code>PE Infrastructure</code> node group to <code>false</code>.</p>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>
<p>Log into the console.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Navigate to <strong>Nodes &gt; Classification</strong>. (In PE 3.8, navigate to <strong>Classification</strong>).</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click the <strong>PE Infrastructure</strong> node group. Click the <strong>Classes</strong> tab. Under the <code>puppet_enterprise</code> class, select the <code>manage_symlinks</code> parameter. In the <strong>Value</strong> field, enter <code>false</code>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click <strong>Add parameter</strong>. Click <strong>Commit changes</strong>.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>OR</p>
<p><strong>To disable the setting in Hiera: </strong>Add <code>puppet_enterprise::symlinks::manage_symlinks: false</code> to your default Hiera <code>.yaml</code> file.</p>
<p><a href="https://puppet.com/docs/pe/latest/config_intro.html#configure_settings_with_hiera">Learn more about making updates to Hiera in our documentation</a>. Use the version selector on our docs site to make sure you've got the right version of our docs for your deployment.</p>
