# Get debug-level information from the Puppet agent installer for Puppet Enterprise 3.8 to 2017.2
<p>You're trying to add new agent nodes to your deployment, but the installer is failing. How can you put the installer into debug mode so that you can get more information about what's going wrong?</p>
<h3 id="version-and-installation-information">Version and installation information</h3>
<p><strong>PE version:</strong> 3.8 to 2017.2<br><strong>OS</strong>: Agents running RHEL (tested), *nix, Solaris, AIX, OSX</p>
<h3 id="solution">Solution</h3>
<p>Putting the agent installation script into debug mode allows you to see output that is helpful for troubleshooting installation issues. In debug mode, the script outputs the commands that are running and the values of the installer's internal variables.</p>
<p><strong>Note:</strong> Debug-level output from the Puppet agent includes hostnames and IP addresses. Please review and redact sensitive information before sending it to us. </p>
<p>Run the Puppet Enterprise agent installation script in debug mode by adding the bash option <code>-x</code> to the command. Since the installer bash script spawns a second instance of bash as it runs, <code>-x</code> must be added twice, so that debug output from the entire installation is available.</p>
<p>For example, to run the installer and output the debug information to <code>/tmp/install_debug.out</code>:</p>
<p><code>curl -k https://puppetmaster.domain.com:8140/packages/&lt;PE VERSION&gt;/install.bash |sed -e "s/[!\! ]bash/bash -x/" |bash -x 2&gt;&amp;1 |tee /tmp/install_debug.out</code></p>
<p><strong>Note:</strong> For AIX agents, use <code>-1</code> instead of <code>-k</code>.</p>
