# Node classifier fails to start when installing Puppet Enterprise 2015.3 with an answer file
<p>When installing Puppet Enterprise with an answer file, the installer hangs on "Waiting for Node Classifier to start..." before failing with a <code>node classifier could not be reached</code> error. I can’t log into the console and agent runs are failing with a 400 error.</p>
<h3 id="error-messages">Error messages</h3>
<p>From the installer:</p>
<p><code>!!! WARNING: The node classifier could not be reached; please check the logs in '/var/log/puppetlabs/console-services/' for more information. /opt/puppetlabs/puppet/lib/ruby/2.1.0/net/http.rb:879:in `initialize': Connection refused - connect(2) for "puppetmaster.domain.com" port 4433 (Errno::ECONNREFUSED)</code></p>
<p>When running <code>puppet agent -t</code>:</p>
<p><code>Warning: Unable to fetch my node definition, but the agent run will continue: Warning: Error 400 on SERVER: Failed to find facts from PuppetDB at puppetmaster.domain.com:8140: Failed to execute '/pdb/query/v4/nodes/puppetmaster.domain.com/facts' on any of the following 'server_urls': https://puppetmaster.domain.com:8081 Info: Retrieving pluginfacts Info: Retrieving plugin Info: Loading facts Error: Could not retrieve catalog from remote server: Error 400 on SERVER: Failed to execute '/pdb/cmd/v1?checksum=ca5617bddc22ea0171a7668ce0c41deac09213df' on any of the following 'server_urls': https://puppetmaster.domain.com:8081 Warning: Not using cache on failed catalog Error: Could not retrieve catalog; skipping run</code></p>
<p>Most commonly, this occurs when <code>hostname --fqdn</code> returns the short hostname of the system rather than the fully qualified domain name, due to the incorrect ordering of hostnames in <code>/etc/hosts/</code>. For example:</p>
<p><code>192.168.1.1 puppetmaster puppetmaster.domain.com puppet</code></p>
<pre># hostname --fqdn
puppetmaster</pre>
<p>If you install PE with an answer file, the output of <code>hostname --fqdn</code> provides default hostname information for all optional answers not specified in the file. Most commonly, the answer file for monolithic installations is missing hostname information for the console and PuppetDB, so <code>hostname --fqdn</code> provides default hostnames for these components. The <code>q_puppetmaster_certname</code> and <code>q_puppetagent_certname</code> answers, which are required by the installer, provide the hostname for SSL certificates. During installation, the master attempts to connect to PuppetDB and the console. If <code>hostname --fqdn</code> returns a string that does not match the certname for <code>q_puppetmaster_certname</code>, the SSL handshake fails and PE cannot install successfully.</p>
<h3 id="version-and-installation-information">Version and installation information</h3>
<p><strong>PE version:</strong> 2015.3<br><strong>Installation type:</strong> Monolithic</p>
<h3 id="solution">Solution</h3>
<p>To resolve the issue:</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>Edit <code>/etc/hosts</code> so that the fully qualified domain name is the first hostname in the entry. For example:</p>
<pre>192.168.1.1  puppetmaster.domain.com  puppetmaster  puppet</pre>
</li>
<li>
<p>Confirm that <code>hostname --fqdn</code> returns the fully qualified hostname. As root on the master, run:</p>
<pre># hostname --fqdn
puppetmaster.domain.com</pre>
</li>
<li>
<p>Uninstall PE: <code>puppet-enterprise-uninstaller -pyd</code></p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Install Puppet Enterprise.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>If you are unable to alter <code>/etc/hosts</code>, resolve the issue by editing your answer file. Add the fully qualified domain name to <code>q_puppetmaster_enterpriseconsole_hostname</code> and <code>q_database_host</code> prior to installation, thus preventing use of the <code>hostname --fdqn</code> default during installation.</p>
