# Resolving a "failure to classify" warning when upgrading to Puppet Enterprise 3.8 to 2015.3
<p>I upgraded Puppet Enterprise. When the installer finished, I received an <code>Installer failed to classify Puppet Enterprise</code> warning. Do I need to fix this?</p>
<h3 id="error-messages-and-logs">Error messages and logs</h3>
<p><code>!!! WARNING: Installer failed to classify Puppet Enterprise. Puppet Enterprise will not be able to manage itself because of this. Check '/var/log/puppetlabs/console-services/' for more information.</code></p>
<p>You might not need to fix anything. The installer is preventing you from overwriting previous changes you made to your nodes' classification. If you're not seeing classification errors when running <code>puppet agent -t</code>, you might not have any issues.</p>
<p>However, for PE to manage your deployment, your preconfigured node groups must be present and configured correctly.</p>
<p>We recommend you check the following to ensure the warning doesn't indicate classification issues:</p>
<ul>
<li>Your preconfigured node groups.</li>
<li>That <code>puppet agent -t</code> runs with no errors.</li>
</ul>
<h3 id="version-and-installation-information">Version and installation information</h3>
<p><strong>PE version:</strong> 3.8 to 2015.3</p>
<h3 id="solution">Solution</h3>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>
<p>Log into the console.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>For PE 2015.3 and 2015.2:</strong> Navigate to <strong>Nodes &gt; Classification</strong>.</p>
<p><strong>For PE 3.8:</strong> Click the <strong>Classification</strong> tab.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Compare your node groups to the list of preconfigured node groups in our documentation: PE <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/3.8/console_classes_groups_preconfigured_groups.md" target="_self">3.8</a>, <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/2015.2/console_classes_groups_preconfigured_groups.md">2015.2</a>, <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/2015.3/console_classes_groups_preconfigured_groups.md" target="_self">2015.3</a>. Check that all of the groups are present, and that each group is configured with the classes, parameters, and nodes listed in our documentation.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Check that your Puppet runs complete with no errors. As root on the master, run <code>puppet agent -t</code>.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>If you are able to complete steps 3 and 4 successfully, the warning does not indicate a classification issue.</p>
<p>If you are not able to complete steps 3 and 4 successfully, and cannot resolve your classification issue, please open a ticket so that we can help you.</p>
