# Reduce LDAP user login time in Puppet Enterprise 2016.1
<p>There is a delay of 30 to 60 seconds when my LDAP users log into the console. How can I reduce the amount of time it takes to login?</p>
<p>In PE 2015.3 and earlier versions, by default RBAC searches nested groups to authorize users. If you upgrade from PE 2015.3 or earlier to 2016.1.x, this nested group search behavior is preserved. For example, if your external directory has a "System Administrators" group, and you've given that group the "Superusers" user role in RBAC, then RBAC also searches any groups that are members of the "System Administrators" group and assign the "Superusers" role to users in those member groups.</p>
<p>If you have a very large number of nested groups, you might experience a slowdown in performance when users are logging in because RBAC is searching the entire hierarchy of groups. In this case, we recommend disabling nested group searc unless you need it for your authorization schema to work.</p>
<h3 id="version-and-installation-information">Version and installation information</h3>
<p><strong>PE version:</strong> 2016.1<br><strong>OS:</strong> Any<br><strong>Installation type:</strong> Any</p>
<h3 id="solution">Solution</h3>
<p>Change the <code>search_nested_groups</code> field to <code>false</code> using the directory service endpoint for the RBAC API.</p>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>
<p><a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/2016.1/install_pe_client_tools.md">Install the PE client tools package</a>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/2016.1/rbac_token_auth.md#configuring-puppet-access">Generate a token for the RBAC API with the Puppet access command line tool</a>. Copy the token.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Set the token as an environment variable: <code>export TOKEN=&lt;PASTE THE TOKEN&gt;</code></p>
</li>
<li>
<p>On the console node (the master in a monolithic installation), get the current directory service configuration from the directory service endpoint by running:</p>
<p><code>curl -k -X GET https://&lt;MASTER_HOSTNAME&gt;:4433/rbac-api/v1/ds -H "X-Authentication:$TOKEN" &gt; ds.json</code></p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Open <code>ds.json</code>, and change the value for <code>search_nested_groups</code> from <code>true</code> to <code>false</code>.</p>
<p><strong>Note:</strong> No other changes to <code>ds.json</code> are needed.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>On the console node (the master in a monolithic installation), update your configuration using the directory service endpoint by running:</p>
<p><code>curl -k https://&lt;MASTER_HOSTNAME&gt;:4433/rbac-api/v1/ds -H "X-Authentication:$TOKEN" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X PUT --data @ds.json</code></p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>Verify that the setting has improved your login time by logging an LDAP user into the console.</p>
