# Check your preconfigured node groups when installing or upgrading Puppet Enterprise 2015.3 or 2015.2
<p><strong>Note:</strong> This article assumes that you're using the PE node classifier. If you've moved classification to Hiera, <code>site.pp</code>, an external node classifier, or role and profile modules, this article does not apply.</p>
<p>The preconfigured node groups in the node classifier are the basis for classification and management of Puppet Enterprise. When they are not present, PE does not function correctly. For example:</p>
<ul>
<li>If your MCollective node group is misconfigured, your agent nodes won't have the MCollective package and won't respond to MCollective commands.</li>
</ul>
<p>When the preconfigured groups are misconfigured and you run <code>puppet agent -t</code>, you might receive:</p>
<ul>
<li>Classification warnings.</li>
<li>Classification errors.</li>
<li>Notification that a node you classified is in an unexpected location (from PE's perspective), and that PE is moving the node to a different environment in order to align it with expected behavior.</li>
</ul>
<p>We recommend verifying that all preconfigured node group are present, and that each group has the correct default parameters, classes, rules, environment, and parent group. Best practice is to verify this information:</p>
<ul>
<li>Before you upgrade your existing PE installation.</li>
<li>After you upgrade your existing PE installation.</li>
<li>After you install PE.</li>
</ul>
<h3 id="error-messages">Error messages</h3>
<p>When running <code>puppet agent -t</code>:</p>
<pre>Warning: Unable to fetch my node definition, but the agent run will continue:
Warning: Error 400 on SERVER: Classification of pe-201611-server.example.com failed due to a classification conflict: The node was classified into groups named "PE Certificate Authority", "PE Orchestrator", "dev environment", "PE Agent", "PE Console", "PE ActiveMQ Broker", "PE MCollective", "PE PuppetDB", and "PE Master" that defined conflicting values for the environment.
Info: Retrieving pluginfacts
Info: Retrieving plugin
Info: Loading facts
Error: Could not retrieve catalog from remote server: Error 400 on SERVER: Failed when searching for node pe-201611-server.example.com: Classification of pe-201611-server.example.com failed due to a classification conflict: The node was classified into groups named "PE Certificate Authority", "PE Orchestrator", "dev environment", "PE Agent", "PE Console", "PE ActiveMQ Broker", "PE MCollective", "PE PuppetDB", and "PE Master" that defined conflicting values for the environment.
Warning: Not using cache on failed catalog
Error: Could not retrieve catalog; skipping run</pre>
<p>Or:</p>
<p><code>Notice: Local environment: 'production' doesn't match server specified node environment 'testing', switching agent to 'testing'</code></p>
<h3 id="version-and-installation-information">Version and installation information</h3>
<p><strong>PE version:</strong> 2015.3, 2015.2. For later versions, <a href="https://support.puppet.com/hc/en-us/articles/115000431494">see this article</a>.<br><strong>Installation type:</strong> Monolithic or split</p>
<h3 id="solution">Solution</h3>
<p>Check that all preconfigured node groups are present and configured correctly.</p>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>
<p>Log into the console.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Navigate to <strong>Nodes &gt; Classification</strong>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Check that you have all of the preconfigured node groups for your version of PE. Verify that each group has the correct parameters, classes, rules, environment, and parent group. View the the preconfigured node groups for PE <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/2015.3/console_classes_groups_preconfigured_groups.md">2015.3</a>, <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/2015.2/console_classes_groups_preconfigured_groups.md">2015.2</a>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>Critical:</strong> Correct any configuration issues in the <strong>PE Infrastructure</strong> node group by completing the following steps.</p>
<p>A. Log into the master as root.</p>
<p>B. Stop the Puppet agent service:</p>
<ul>
<li><code>puppet resource service puppet ensure=stopped</code></li>
</ul>
<p>C. If you have a split installation, repeat steps A and B on the PuppetDB and console nodes.</p>
<p>D. In the console, correct configuration issues in the <strong>PE Infrastructure</strong> node group. If the group is missing, add it. Add or correct any misconfigured parameters, classes, rules, environments, or parent groups.</p>
<p>E. On the master, ensure the changes will be successful by running <code>puppet agent -t -noop</code>.</p>
<p>F. If <code>puppet agent -t --noop</code> returns no errors, run <code>puppet agent -t</code> to apply the changes.</p>
<p>G. Restart the agent service:</p>
<ul>
<li><code>puppet resource service puppet ensure=running</code></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>Correct configuration issues in the remaining node groups. In the console, add missing preconfigured node groups and correct any misconfigured parameters, classes, rules, environments, or parent groups.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Verify that classification is being applied correctly. For one node from each preconfigured group, open <code>/opt/puppetlabs/puppet/cache/state/classes.txt</code>, and check the list of all classes applied to that node during the last successful Puppet run.</p>
</li>
</ol>
