# Resolving a "classification conflict" error after upgrading to Puppet Enterprise 2016.2.0
<!-- Resolving a "classification conflict" error after upgrading to Puppet Enterprise 2016.2.0 - Charlie Sharpsteen -->
<p>After upgrading to Puppet Enterprise 2016.2.0 or running <code>puppet enterprise configure</code> on a PE 2016.2.0 installation, you might get a "classification conflict" error when an agent is classified in more than one <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/2016.2/console_classes_groups.markdown#types-of-node-groups">environment node group</a>.</p>
<p>Upgrading to PE 2016.2.0 or running <code>puppet enterprise configure</code> causes a rule to be restored that matches all nodes to the <strong>Production environment</strong> node group. The restoration of this rule creates a classification conflict with environment groups that do not inherit from the <strong>Production environment</strong> node group.</p>
<p><strong>Note:</strong> If all of your environment node groups inherit from the <strong>Production environment</strong> node group, this article does not apply.</p>
<h3 id="error-messages">Error messages</h3>
<pre><code>Error: Could not retrieve catalog from remote server: Error 400 on
SERVER: Failed when searching for node agentname.domain.com:
Classification of agentname.domain.com failed due to a classification
conflict: The node was classified into groups named "&lt;custom
environment group&gt;", "PE Agent", "PE MCollective", and "Production
environment" that defined conflicting values for the environment.</code></pre>
<h3 id="version-and-installation-information">Version and installation information</h3>
<p><strong>PE version:</strong> 2016.2.0<br>This issue was resolved in PE 2016.2.1.<br><br><strong>OS:</strong> Any agent</p>
<h3 id="solution">Solution</h3>
<p>Resolve the error by removing the rule adding all nodes to the <strong>Production environment</strong> node group.</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>Log into the console.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Navigate to <strong>Nodes &gt; Classification</strong>. Select the <strong>Production environment</strong> node group.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>In the <strong>Rules</strong> tab, find the rule that has the following values:</p>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>Fact</td>
<td>Operator</td>
<td>Value</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>name</code></td>
<td><code>~</code></td>
<td><code>.*</code></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</li>
<li>
<p>Click <strong>Remove</strong> to the right of the rule. Commit the change by clicking the <strong>Commit 1 change</strong> button.</p>
</li>
</ol>
