# Resolving an evaluation error when installing Puppet Enterprise 2016.2.0
<p>When I install Puppet Enterprise 2016.2.0, I get an evaluation error. I can't complete installation. How can I resolve this?</p>
<h3 id="error-message">Error message</h3>
<pre>2016-06-23 10:25:44,007 Running command: /opt/puppetlabs/puppet/bin/puppet enterprise configure --detailed-exitcodes --modulepath /opt/puppetlabs/server/data/enterprise/modules
2016-06-23 10:25:45,756 - [Error]: Evaluation Error: Error while evaluating a Function Call, Lookup of key 'puppet_enterprise::puppet_master_host' failed: DataBinding 'hiera': /etc/puppetlabs/enterprise/conf.d/pe.conf: String: 33: Expecting close brace } or a comma, got ':' (if you intended ':' to be part of a key or string value, try enclosing the key or value in double quotes at line 1:1 on node &lt;NODE_NAME&gt;
* /opt/puppetlabs/puppet/bin/puppet enterprise configure --detailed-exitcodes --modulepath /opt/puppetlabs/server/data/enterprise/modules
* returned: 1
!! There were problems during the application of the installation catalog. !!
!! Please review the logs. !!</pre>
<p>When PE 2016.2.0 is installed in text mode, you get an evaluation error when the <code>console_admin_password</code> parameter in <code>pe.conf</code> is not set or has incorrect syntax.</p>
<h3 id="version-and-installation-information">Version and installation information</h3>
<p><strong>PE version:</strong> 2016.2.0<br><strong>OS:</strong> Any<br><strong>Installation type:</strong> Any</p>
<h3 id="solution">Solution</h3>
<p>Correct the <code>console_admin_password</code> parameter in <code>pe.conf</code> and install PE.</p>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>
<p>Open <code>pe.conf</code>.</p>
<p><strong>Note:</strong> If you generated <code>pe.conf</code> with the web-based installer, it is located at <code>/etc/puppetlabs/enterprise/conf.d/pe.conf</code>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Edit the <code>console_admin_password</code> parameter so that your password is set and your syntax is correct. For example:</p>
<pre>#--------------------------------------------------------------------------
# Required. The password to log into the Puppet Enterprise console.
#--------------------------------------------------------------------------
"console_admin_password": "strongpassword1234"</pre>
</li>
<li>Install PE in <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/2016.2/install_text_mode.md">text mode</a>.</li>
</ol>
<p>For more information on <code>pe.conf</code>, read the <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/2016.2/install_pe_conf_param.md"><code>pe.conf</code> parameter reference</a>.</p>
