# Troubleshooting missing environments in the node classifier for Puppet Enterprise 3.7 to 2015.3
<p>Why are my environments missing from the drop-down list in the node classifier? How do I fix it?</p>
<p><strong>Note:</strong> This article assumes that you are not using Code Manager. Read more about managing modules with Puppetfiles <strong>(the workflow used with Code Manager) </strong>for Puppet Enterprise <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/2015.3/cmgmt_puppetfile.md" target="_self">2015.3</a>.</p>
<p><strong>Note:</strong> Before you send classifier data to us, review it to make sure it doesn’t contain sensitive information, including hostnames, IP addresses, and environment names.</p>
<h3>Version and installation information</h3>
<p><strong>PE version:</strong> 2015.3, 2015.2 3.8, 3.7</p>
<h3 id="solution">Solution</h3>
<ul>
<li>
<p>Environments in the console are populated from environment directories on the master. Verify that the environment directories on the master match the environments in the console.</p>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>
<p>List your environment directories by running the following on the master:</p>
<p><strong>For PE 2015.3 and 2015.2:</strong><br><code>ls -al /etc/puppetlabs/code/environments</code></p>
<p><strong>For PE 3.8 and PE 3.7:</strong><br><code>ls -al /etc/puppetlabs/puppet/environments</code></p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Correct any issues.</p>
</li>
</ol>
</li>
<li>
<p>When the Puppet parser is unable to compile code for an environment, the node classifier cannot sync the environment. Environments that are not synced do not appear in the console drop-down list.</p>
<p>To resolve the issue:</p>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>
<p>Open <code>console-services log</code>.</p>
<p><strong>For PE 2015.3, and 2015.2:</strong><br>Open <code>/var/log/puppetlabs/console-services.log</code></p>
<p><strong>For PE 3.8 and 3.7:</strong><br>Open <code>/var/log/pe-console-services/console-services.log</code></p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Search the log for 400 errors. These errors indicate environments that the node classifier failed to sync.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Correct the code in the affected environments.</p>
</li>
</ol>
</li>
<li>
<p>When the Puppet parser is unable to compile code for an environment, the environment might be marked as deleted in the <code>pe-classifier</code> database. Environments marked as deleted do not appear in the drop-down list in the console.</p>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>
<p>Check if your environment is marked as deleted by running the following query on the PuppetDB node (the master in a monolithic installation). When an environment has been marked as deleted, the <code>deleted</code> column's value is <code>t</code>.</p>
<p><strong>For PE 2015.3 and 2015.2:</strong><br><code>sudo su - pe-postgres -s /bin/bash -c "psql -d 'pe-classifier' -c \"SELECT * FROM environments;\""</code></p>
<p><strong>For PE 3.8 and 3.7:<br></strong> <code>sudo su - pe-postgres -s /bin/bash -c "/opt/puppet/bin/psql -d 'pe-classifier' -c \"SELECT * FROM environments;\""</code></p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Resolve the issue by changing the value in <code>deleted</code> from true to false by running the following query on the PuppetDB node (the master in a monolithic installation):</p>
<p><strong>For PE 2015.3 and 2015.2:</strong><br><code>sudo su - pe-postgres -s /bin/bash -c "psql -d 'pe-classifier' -c \"UPDATE environments SET deleted = 'f' WHERE name = '&lt;environment&gt;';\""</code></p>
<p><strong>For PE 3.8 and PE 3.7:</strong><br><code>sudo su - pe-postgres -s /bin/bash -c "/opt/puppet/bin/psql -d 'pe-classifier' -c \"UPDATE environments SET deleted = 'f' WHERE name = '&lt;environment&gt;';\""</code></p>
</li>
</ol>
</li>
<li>
<p>If environments are missing after following the steps above, refresh the cached class data using the node classifier API's <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/2015.3/nc_update_classes.markdown#update-classes-endpoint" target="_self">update-classes endpoint</a>. Run the following on the console node (the master in a monolithic installation):</p>
<pre><code>curl -X POST \
--cert $(puppet config print hostcert) \
--key $(puppet config print hostprivkey) \
--cacert $(puppet config print localcacert) \
https://$(puppet config print server):4433/classifier-api/v1/update-classes</code></pre>
<p>If you're unable to refresh the cached class data using the <code>update-classes</code> endpoint, please open a support ticket.</p>
</li>
</ul>
