# Collect troubleshooting data for console issues for Puppet Enterprise 3.8 to 2017.3
<p>This article will help you to gather relevant information when opening a support ticket for the following common console issues:</p>
<ul>
<li>Endpoint requests timing out</li>
<li>HTTP errors from endpoints</li>
<li>Cosmetic or rendering issues</li>
</ul>
<p><strong>Note:</strong> Each file attachment is limited to 20 MB. You might be able to compress some files below 20 MB as <code>.tar.gz</code> or <code>.zip</code> files. If you need to upload files which are over 20 MB in size, please ask a Support Engineer for assistance.</p>
<h3 id="version-and-installation-information">Version and installation information</h3>
<p><strong>PE version:</strong> 3.8 to 2017.3<br><strong>Tested browser versions:</strong> Chrome v51.x, Firefox v47.x+</p>
<h3 id="solution">Solution</h3>
<p>Gather the following information:</p>
<ul>
<li>Your PE version number</li>
<li>Your browser and version number</li>
<li>Your OS and version number</li>
<li>The URL in the console</li>
<li>For console errors: the text of the error</li>
<li>For network errors: the error code and one of the following items:<br><br>
<ul>
<li>An HTTP archive format (HAR) file</li>
<li>A copy of the request and response headers
<p>A HAR file is a large file which includes the error payload. Be aware that this file might include sensitive information, including passwords and cookies allowing access to your accounts. For instructions on how to capture a HAR file, read <a href="https://support.puppet.com/hc/en-us/articles/222026527">Debugging the console with HTTP archive format (HAR) files for Puppet Enterprise</a>.</p>
<p>The request and response headers are small files that are helpful for troubleshooting most console issues. There isn't any sensitive information in the headers.</p>
<p>To copy the request and response headers:</p>
</li>
</ul>
<div style="margin-left: 2em;">
<ol>
<li>Right click in the browser and select <strong>Inspect</strong> (Chrome) or <strong>Inspect Element</strong> (Firefox).</li>
<li>Select the <strong>Network</strong> tab.</li>
<li>In the <strong>Network</strong> tab:
<ul>
<li>Right click and select <strong>Copy Request Headers</strong>.</li>
<li>Right click and select <strong>Copy Response Headers</strong>.</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ol>
</div>
</li>
<li>
<p>Check for failures in the browser developer tools.</p>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>Right click in the browser and select <strong>Inspect</strong> (Chrome) or <strong>Inspect Element</strong> (Firefox).</li>
<li>Select the <strong>Console</strong> tab. Check for failures including JavaScript errors, network errors, and CSS errors.</li>
<li>Select the <strong>Network</strong> tab. Check for failed requests.</li>
</ol>
</li>
<li>
<p>For cosmetic or rendering issues, take a screenshot so that our Support Engineers can better understand what you're seeing.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Check the <code>pe-console-services</code> log for errors and warnings.</p>
<ul>
<li>
<strong>For PE 2015.2 and later:</strong>  <code>
          /var/log/puppetlabs/
          <wbr></wbr>
          console-services/console-
          <wbr></wbr>
          services.log
        </code>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>For PE 3.8</strong>: <code>/var/log/pe-console-services/console-services.log</code></p>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>If checking the <code>pe-console-services</code> log does not give you enough information to troubleshoot the issue, increase the log level for <code>pe-console-services</code> to gather additional information.</p>
<p>Increase the log level for the services in <code>pe-console-services</code> (including RBAC, the node classifier, and <code>pe-console-middleware</code>) by adding a namespaced logger entry above the <code>root level</code> entry in <code>/etc/puppetlabs/console-services/logback.xml</code>. For example:</p>
<pre><code>&lt;!-- increase the logging level of pe-console-middleware's run puppet functionality --&gt;
&lt;logger name="puppetlabs.pe-console-middleware.agents.run" level="debug"/&gt;
&lt;logger name="puppetlabs.pe-console-middleware.pcp-client" level="debug"/&gt;

&lt;!-- increase the logging level of the pxp and pcp clients --&gt;
&lt;logger name="puppetlabs.pxp" level="debug"/&gt;
&lt;logger name="puppetlabs.pcp" level="debug"/&gt;
&lt;root level="debug"&gt;</code></pre>
</li>
</ul>
<p>For more information about increasing the log level of <code>pe-console-services</code> read <a href="https://support.puppet.com/hc/en-us/articles/219822387">Change the log level for console services for Puppet Enterprise 2016.1, 2015.3, and 2015.2</a>. </p>
<p>For more information about changing the log level for other PE services, read <a href="https://support.puppet.com/hc/en-us/articles/115000177368">Change the log level for PE services in Puppet Enterprise 2016.1 to 2017.2</a>.</p>
