# Troubleshoot missing classes in the node classifier for Puppet Enterprise 3.7 to 2017.2
<p>Some of my classes are missing in the node classifier. How do I troubleshoot this issue?</p>
<h3 id="version-and-installation-information">Version and installation information</h3>
<p><strong>PE version:</strong> 3.7 to 2017.2</p>
<h3 id="solution">Solution</h3>
<p>Troubleshoot missing classes using the following steps:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>If your <code>environment_timeout</code> is set to <code>unlimited</code> in <code>puppet.conf</code> or <code>environment.conf</code>, classes are not automatically refreshed in the node classifier. Use the <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/2017.2/nc_update_classes.markdown"><code>update-classes</code> endpoint</a> to refresh the cached class data for PE.</p>
<p>Run the following on the console node (the master in a monolithic installation):</p>
<pre>curl -X POST \
--cert $(puppet config print hostcert) \
--key $(puppet config print hostprivkey) \
--cacert $(puppet config print localcacert) \
https://$(puppet config print server):4433/classifier-api/v1/update-classes</pre>
<p>If you're unable to refresh the cached class data using the <code>update-classes</code> endpoint, please open a support ticket.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>When the path to load your modules is misconfigured in <code>environmentpath</code> or <code>modulepath</code>, classes associated with those modules might load in the wrong environment or not load at all.</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>Verify the <code>environmentpath</code> and <code>modulepath</code> of your production environment by running <code>puppet module list --environment=production</code>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Verify the <code>environmentpath</code> and <code>modulepath</code> for each of your non-production environments by running <code>puppet module list --environment=&lt;environment&gt;</code>.</p>
</li>
</ul>
<p>If your <code>environmentpath</code> or <code>modulepath</code> is misconfigured, update <code>environment.conf</code> with the correct settings. For more information about how to update <code>environment.conf</code>, read our documentation for PE <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/puppet/4.10/config_file_environment.markdown">2017.2</a>, <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/puppet/4.5/config_file_environment.markdown">2016.2</a>, <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/puppet/4.4/config_file_environment.markdown">2016.1</a>, <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/puppet/4.3/config_file_environment.markdown">2015.3</a>, <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/puppet/4.2/config_file_environment.markdown">2015.2</a>, <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/puppet/3.8/config_file_environment.markdown">3.8</a>, or <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/puppet/3.7/config_file_environment.markdown">3.7</a>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>When one manifest in an environment can't be compiled by the Puppet parser, all classes in the environment fail to sync. Classes that are not synced do not appear in the console drop-down list.</p>
<p>To resolve the issue:</p>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>
<p>Open the <code>console-services log</code>.</p>
<p><strong>For PE 2015.2 to 2017.2:</strong><code>/var/log/puppetlabs/console-services/console-services.log</code></p>
<p><strong>For PE 3.7 and 3.8:</strong><code>/var/log/pe-console-services/console-services.log</code></p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Search the log for 400 errors. These errors indicate environments that the node classifier failed to sync.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Correct the code in the affected environments.</p>
</li>
</ol>
</li>
<li>
<p>Classes installed in directory environments are only available in the corresponding environment in the console. Verify that modules (and thus their associated classes) are located in the correct environment by running the following on the master:</p>
<p><code>puppet module list --environment &lt;environment name&gt;</code></p>
<p>If any of your modules or classes are in unintended environments, please open a support ticket.</p>
</li>
</ul>
