# Upgrading to PE 2016.2 
<h2>Monolithic installation</h2>
<p>If you are upgrading a monolithic installation you can simply run the installer. Your preferred text editor will open and display an example <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/2016.2/install_pe_conf_param.md"><code>pe.conf</code></a> file.</p>
<p>The only action you need to take is to fill in the <code>console_admin_password</code>. You can set it to what it currently is or choose a new password.</p>
<p>Upon closing your editor the upgrade will begin.</p>
<h2>Split installation</h2>
<p>If you are upgrading a split installation, create a <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/2016.2/install_pe_conf_param.md"><code>pe.conf</code></a> file before starting your upgrade process.</p>
<p>Copy the file from <code>conf.d/pe.conf</code> (inside the expanded installer tarball) and open it in your preferred text editor. You need to fill in the following values:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p><code>"console_admin_password": "&lt;PASSWORD&gt;"</code>— The password used to log into the PE console.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><code>"puppet_enterprise::puppet_master_host": "&lt;FQDN&gt;"</code>— The FQDN of the node hosting the Puppet master.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><code>"puppet_enterprise::console_host": "&lt;FQDN&gt;"</code>— The FQDN of the node hosting the PE console.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><code>"puppet_enterprise::puppetdb_host": "&lt;FQDN&gt;"</code> — The FQDN of the node hosting PuppetDB.</p>
</li>
</ul>
<p>After modifying pe.conf you can supply it to the installer with the <code>-c</code> flag.</p>
<h2>External PostgreSQL or custom database names</h2>
<p>Make note of the minimum parameters needed for monolithic or split installs above.</p>
<p>If you have an external PostgreSQL node or you have customized the names of the databases in your installation please refer to the <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/2016.2/install_pe_conf_param.md#database-configuration-parameters"><code>pe.conf</code> reference</a> for how to provide parameters for these options.</p>
<h2>Notes about previous customizations to PE</h2>
<p>If you've customized your PE deployment in any of the ways listed in our <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/2016.2/config_intro.markdown">PE configuration documentation</a> or via the instruction of a support engineer, then you need to consider whether you need to take action before upgrading.</p>
<ol>
<li>For any settings you've customized via hiera using the default datadir those settings will be enforced during the upgrade. No need for action.</li>
</ol><ul>
<li><a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/2016.2/install_pe_conf_param.md#pe-settings-configured-with-hiera-or-the-console" target="_blank" rel="noopener">https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/master/pe/2016.2/install_pe_conf_param.md#pe-settings-configured-with-hiera-or-the-console</a></li>
</ul>
<li>If you customized settings via the console UI or in hiera using a non-default datadir, then you need to take action to make sure these settings are enforced during upgrade.</li>
<ol>
<li>If you customized via hiera then consider switching to the default datadir then you'll be prepared for the upgrade.</li>
<li>If you customized via the console UI or via hiera (where you cannot switch to the default datadir) then you have to make the same customizations in your pe.conf file</li>
</ol>

<p>Read more about <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/2016.2/upgrade_mono.md">upgrading to PE 2016.2</a>.</p>
