# Upgrade to 2016.2 completed with no errors, but Puppet run after upgrade fails, and PE services are down
<p>I upgraded to PE 2016.2 with no errors. The Puppet run after I upgraded failed and some of my PE services are down.</p>
<h3 id="version-and-installation-information">Version and installation information</h3>
<p><strong>PE version:</strong> 2016.2</p>
<p><strong>OS:</strong> Any</p>
<p><strong>Installation type:</strong> Any</p>
<h3 id="solution">Solution</h3>
<p>Here's what happened:</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>During the upgrade, the installer uses <code>puppet enterprise configure</code> to get your customized settings from the default Hiera <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/hiera/3.1/configuring.markdown#datadir">datadir</a> (data directory). Any settings changed in the console or a non-default Hiera datadir are not used, and are set to default values by the installer.</p>
<p>These settings include:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>Number of JRuby instances and <code>max_requests_per_instance</code></p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Java heap size</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Any other custom configuration settings in our <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/2016.2/config_intro.markdown">PE configuration docs</a></p>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>The installer completes with no error messages.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Your tuning settings (especially increases to memory) are necessary for PE to function correctly, so the Puppet run after your upgrade fails.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>When the Puppet run fails, the Puppet agent applies a cached catalog that reverts some unrelated settings from the upgrade.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>In order to resolve the situation, you have two options:</p>
<h4 id="if-youre-using-hiera-with-a-non-default-datadir-and-can-change-your-datadir">If you're using Hiera (with a non-default datadir), and can change your datadir</h4>
<ol>
<li>
<p><a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/hiera/3.1/configuring.markdown#backend-specific-settings">Change your datadir</a> to the default: <code>/etc/puppetlabs/code/environments/%{environment}/hieradata</code>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Return your tuning settings to what they were before your upgrade by running <code>puppet enterprise configure</code>.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<h4 id="if-you-need-to-continue-using-hiera-with-a-non-default-datadir-or-you-tuned-the-settings-with-the-pe-console">If you need to continue using Hiera with a non-default datadir or you tuned the settings with the PE console:</h4>
<ol>
<li>
<p>Add your tuning settings to <code>/etc/puppetlabs/enterprise/pe.conf</code>. For examples of how to format the settings, see the <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/2016.2/install_pe_conf_param.md">pe.conf parameter reference</a>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Update your settings by running <code>puppet enterprise configure</code>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Run <code>puppet agent -t</code>. Any settings you've missed adding to <code>pe.conf</code> are changed back to default during the Puppet run. If you see any settings change during the Puppet run, make sure add them to <code>pe.conf</code>. You'll know that your settings are in place when you run <code>puppet agent -t</code> and no settings change during the Puppet run.</p>
</li>
</ol>
