# Resolve an " \"etag \" does not exist" error when upgrading to Puppet Enterprise 2016.2.0
<p>When I upgraded to 2016.2.0, installation failed and I got an <code>\"etag\" does not exist</code> error. How do I resolve it?</p>
<h3 id="error-messages-and-logs">Error messages and logs</h3>
<p>When upgrading to 2016.2.0, a duplicate key in a database table prevents database migration from completing successfully, <code>pe-console-services</code> stops, and the installer exits with the following error message:</p>
<p><code>2016-07-18 17:25:48,627 - [Error]: Failed to apply catalog: Received 5 server error responses from the Node Manager service at https://node1.example.com:4433/classifier-api: 500 {"kind":"application-error","msg":"ERROR: column \"etag\" does not exist\n Position: 13"}</code></p>
<p>In <code>/var/log/puppetlabs/console-services/console-services.log</code>:</p>
<p><code>2016-07-19 17:33:15,521 ERROR [p.c.class-updater] Encountered an unexpected exception while trying to synchronize classes from the Puppet Master: org.postgresql.util.PSQLException: ERROR: column "etag" does not exist</code></p>
<h3 id="version-and-installation-information">Version and installation information</h3>
<p><strong>PE version:</strong> 2016.2.0<br> <strong>OS:</strong> Any<br> <strong>Installation type:</strong> Any</p>
<h3 id="solution">Solution</h3>
<p><strong>Note:</strong> These instructions assume you're not using an external PostgreSQL instance. If you are, complete steps 2 through 6 on your PostgreSQL instance.</p>
<p>To remove the duplicate key and resolve the issue, complete the following steps:</p>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>Locate the "Key is duplicated" error among the <code>console-services.log</code> entries. The <code>group_id</code> included in the error message is the duplicate key causing the error, and you'll use this key to resolve the issue. Search for it by running:
<p><code>grep 'is duplicated' /var/log/puppetlabs/console-services/console-services.log</code></p>
<code>2016-07-19 17:33:14,811 ERROR [p.j.pool] ClassifierPool - An error was encountered during initialization. org.postgresql.util.PSQLException: ERROR: could not create unique index "rules_group_id_idx" Detail: Key (group_id)=(<strong>f6f0df78-b3f5-4de8-b38b-90b24977e3ef</strong>) is duplicated.</code>
<p>Copy the value associated with the <code>group_id</code> (bolded above) in the duplicate key error. In the example error message above, the value to copy is <code>f6f0df78-b3f5-4de8-b38b-90b24977e3ef</code>, but yours is unique to your database table.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>On your PuppetDB node (the master in a monolithic installation) connect to your PostgreSQL instance by running:</p>
<p><code>su - pe-postgres -s /bin/bash -c psql</code></p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Connect to the <code>pe-classifier</code> database:</p>
<p><code>\c pe-classifier</code></p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Find the duplicate key in the <code>pe-classifier</code>'s rules table using the <code>group_id</code> that you copied from the error message:</p>
<p><code>select * from rules where group_id = '&lt;your group_id&gt;';</code></p>
<p>For example:</p>
<code>select * from rules where group_id = 'f6f0df78-b3f5-4de8-b38b-90b24977e3ef';</code>
<p>Your output should look similar to the following:</p>
<pre><code> id | match | group_id
----+--------------------------------------+--------------------------------------
 31 | ["or",["=","name","node1.example.com"]] | f6f0df78-b3f5-4de8-b38b-90b24977e3ef
 32 | ["or",["=","name","node1.example.com"]] | f6f0df78-b3f5-4de8-b38b-90b24977e3ef
(2 rows)</code></pre>
</li>
<li>
<p>If the center column (the <code>match</code> field) is identical for both rows, as in our example output, it is safe to remove one of the rows. Copy the <code>id</code> number of one of the duplicate rows. Remove the row by pasting the <code>id</code> number into the the following command:</p>
<p><code>DELETE from rules where ID = &lt;row id number&gt;;</code></p>
<p>For example: <code>DELETE from rules where ID = 32;</code></p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Quit the postgreSQL CLI: <code>\q</code></p>
</li>
<li>
<p>On your master, start the <code>pe-console-services</code> service:</p>
<p><code>service pe-console-services start</code></p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>When <code>pe-console-services</code> starts, the missing 'etag' column is created, and your upgrade will finish.</p>
<p>If your issue isn't resolved, please open a support ticket.</p>
