# Configure Code Manager in Hiera with multiple Hiera repositories in Puppet Enterprise 2016.2
<p>I have a control repository and two Git repos for my Hiera data. How can I configure Code Manager to pull all of them when code is deployed?</p>
<h3 id="version-and-installation-information">Version and installation information</h3>
<p><strong>PE version:</strong> 2016.2<br><strong>Installation type:</strong> Any</p>
<h3 id="solution">Solution</h3>
<p>In PE 2016.2, there are multiple ways to pull Hiera and the control repo from Git. We'll focus on configuring Code Manager to download the Hiera data into separate environments.</p>
<p>These instructions will overwrite your existing code and Hiera data, so back up your code and data before you begin.</p>
<p>The example in this article assumes:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>Your Hiera datadir (data directory) is in the default location: <code>/etc/puppetlabs/code/environments/%{::environment}/hieradata</code></p>
</li>
<li>
<p>The <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/hiera/3.1/hierarchy.markdown#location-and-syntax" target="_self">hierarchy in your hiera.yaml config file</a> ends with <code>common</code>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>You have a control repo and two Hiera repos, each with a production and development branch. In our example, we have one Hiera repo each for data centers in Portland and Seattle.<br><br><strong>Note:</strong> This procedure can be done with any number of additional repos.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>An RBAC user assigned the <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/2016.2/rbac_user_roles.md#introduction-to-users-and-user-roles">Code Deployers user role</a> and a <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/2016.2/rbac_token_auth.md#generating-a-token-using-puppet-access" target="_self">valid token</a>.</p>
</li>
</ul>
<p>You'll need to modify the following steps to match your own Code Manager workflow, repos, and environments.</p>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>
<p>On the master, stop the <code>puppet</code> agent service: <code>puppet resource service puppet ensure=stopped</code></p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Remove Code Manager configuration from the console. Log into the console. Navigate to <strong>Nodes &gt; Classification</strong>. Select the <strong>PE Master</strong> group. Click <strong>Classes</strong>. Under the <code>puppet_enterprise::profile::master class</code>, remove the following parameters by clicking <strong>Remove</strong>:</p>
<ul>
<li><code>code_manager_auto_configure</code></li>
<li><code>r10k_remote</code></li>
<li><code>r10k_private_key</code></li>
</ul>
<p>Click <strong>Commit</strong>.</p>
</li>
<li>Add Code Manager configuration to Hiera in <code>/etc/puppetlabs/code/environments/production/hieradata/common.yaml</code>.
<p>Here's the step-by-step process for setting up our example Portland and Seattle data centers. Your configuration will be different.</p>
<p><strong>Example <code>common.yaml</code>:</strong></p>
<pre><code>---
puppet_enterprise::profile::master::code_manager_auto_configure: true
puppet_enterprise::master::code_manager::git_settings:
  repositories:
    - remote: "git@github.com:&lt;REPO PATH&gt;/control-repo.git"
      private-key: "/etc/puppetlabs/puppetserver/control_repo_id.rsa"
    - remote: "git@gitlabserver.example.com:&lt;REPO PATH&gt;/hiera-seattle.git"
      private-key: "/etc/puppetlabs/puppetserver/seattle_repo_id.rsa"
    - remote: "git@gitlabserver.example.com:&lt;REPO PATH&gt;/hiera-portland.git"
      private-key: "/etc/puppetlabs/puppetserver/portland_repo_id.rsa"
puppet_enterprise::master::code_manager::sources:
    main:
      remote: "git@github.com:&lt;REPO PATH&gt;/control-repo.git"
    seattle:
      prefix: true
      remote: "git@gitlabserver.example.com:&lt;REPO PATH&gt;/hiera-seattle.git"
    portland:
      prefix: true
      remote: "git@gitlabserver.example.com:&lt;REPO PATH&gt;/hiera-portland.git"
</code></pre>
<ul>
<li>
<p>Add the <code>code_manager_auto_configure</code> parameter to Hiera to enable Code Manager.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Add each repo and the path to its SSH key to both the <code>repositories</code> array and <code>sources</code> hash.</p>
<p><strong>Caution:</strong> Ensure that you add each repo to the <code>sources</code> hash once and the <code>repositories</code> array once. All SSH keys must be in the paths configured in Hiera before you deploy in step 6.</p>
<p><strong>Caution:</strong> The Hiera data contained in the Hiera repos must contain the same Code Manager-related Hiera key-value pairs configured in <code>common.yaml</code>. If it does not, the Puppet run following steps 8 and 9 will revert the Code Manager configuration.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>In the <code>sources</code> hash:</p>
<p>Your control repo does not have a key-value pair of <code>prefix: true</code> and deploys to your production and development environments.</p>
<p>Each Hiera repo has a key-value pair of <code>prefix: true</code> and deploys to an environment directory named <code>&lt;repo&gt;_&lt;branch name&gt;</code>. For example, the <code>portland</code> repo's development branch deploys to <code>/etc/puppetlabs/code/environments/portland_development</code>.</p>
<p>For our example, the directory structure is:</p>
<pre><code>/etc/puppetlabs/code/environments
├── development
├── portland_development
├── portland_production
├── production
├── seattle_development
└── seattle_production

6 directories</code></pre>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>Check the syntax of your configuration changes in the previous step by running the following on the master: <code>hiera -c $(puppet config print hiera_config) puppet_enterprise::master::code_manager::git_settings environment=production</code></p>
<p>If you have no syntax errors, the output includes a hash with each repo and its SSH key. For example:</p>
<pre><code>{"repositories"=&gt;
  [{"remote"=&gt;"git@github.com:&lt;REPO PATH&gt;/control-repo.git",
    "private-key"=&gt;"/etc/puppetlabs/puppetserver/control_repo_id.rsa"},
   {"remote"=&gt;"git@gitlabserver.example.com:&lt;REPO PATH&gt;/hiera-seattle.git",
    "private-key"=&gt;"/etc/puppetlabs/puppetserver/seattle_repo_id.rsa"},
   {"remote"=&gt;"git@gitlabserver.example.com:&lt;REPO PATH&gt;/hiera-portland.git",
    "private-key"=&gt;"/etc/puppetlabs/puppetserver/portland_repo_id.rsa"}]}
</code></pre>
</li>
<li>
<p>Update your Code Manager configuration by running <code>puppet agent -t</code>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Deploy the code by running <code>puppet code deploy --all --wait |python -m json.tool</code>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/hiera/3.1/configuring.markdown#backend-specific-settings">Update the datadir in <code>hiera.yaml</code></a>, adding the environment directories where your Hiera data is deployed (see step 3).</p>
<p><strong>Note:</strong> If you need to select among subdirectories conditionally (such as selecting the Portland Hiera data for the Portland data center), you might want to create a <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/facter/3.1/fact_overview.md">custom fact</a> to do so.</p>
<p>For example, if you have a custom fact named <code>location</code> that picks between <code>seattle</code> and <code>portland</code>, you'd update your datadir with the following:</p>
<p><code>:datadir: /etc/puppetlabs/code/environments/%{location}_%{environment}/hieradata</code></p>
</li>
<li>
<p>On the master, complete the update to <code>hiera.yaml</code> by restarting <code>pe-puppetserver</code>.</p>
<p><code>puppet resource service pe-puppetserver ensure=stopped ; puppet resource service pe-puppetserver ensure=running</code></p>
</li>
<li>
<p>On the master, restart the <code>puppet</code> service: <code>puppet resource service puppet ensure=running</code></p>
</li>
</ol>
