# Resolve an issue with a /tmp directory mounted as noexec when installing Puppet Enterprise 2016.1
<p>I installed PE 2016.1 on an RHEL 7 server. My <code>/tmp</code> directory is mounted as <code>noexec</code>. The first Puppet run after installation failed. I can’t <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/8e8eeb11dc273f1ecb49851ecfac8440ca0eaa32/pe/2016.1/release_notes_known_issues_puppetserver.md#puppet-server-run-issue-when-tmp-directory-mounted-noexec" target="_self">use the console to change <code>/tmp</code></a>. How can I resolve the issue?</p>
<h3 id="logs">Logs</h3>
<p>In RHEL 7 installations, if the <code>/tmp</code> directory is mounted as <code>noexec</code>, Puppet Server might fail to run correctly, and you might see an error in the Puppet Server log (<code>/var/log/puppetlabs/puppetserver/puppetserver.log</code>) similar to the following:</p>
<pre><code>Nov 12 17:46:12 fqdn.com java[56495]: Failed to load feature test for posix: can't find user for 0
Nov 12 17:46:12 fqdn.com java[56495]: Cannot run on Microsoft Windows without the win32-process, win32-dir and win32-service gems: Win32API only supported on win32
Nov 12 17:46:12 fqdn.com java[56495]: Puppet::Error: Cannot determine basic system flavour</code></pre>
<p>This is caused by embedded files in JRuby which need to be copied to the filesystem before they can be executed (<a href="https://github.com/jruby/jruby/issues/2186">see this JRuby issue</a>). As a workaround, you can either mount the <code>/tmp</code> directory without <code>noexec</code>, or you can choose a different directory to use as the temporary directory for the Puppet Server process. Either way, you’ll need to set the permissions of the directory to 1777 to allow the Puppet Server JRuby process to write a file to <code>/tmp</code> and then execute it.</p>
<h3 id="version-and-installation-information">Version and installation information</h3>
<p><strong>PE version:</strong> 2016.1<br> For <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/8e8eeb11dc273f1ecb49851ecfac8440ca0eaa32/pe/2016.1/release_notes_known_issues_puppetserver.md#puppet-server-run-issue-when-tmp-directory-mounted-noexec" target="_self">2016.2</a> and later versions: see the known issue in our documentation. <br> <br> <strong>OS:</strong> RHEL 7<br> <strong>Installation type:</strong> Monolithic</p>
<h3 id="solution">Solution</h3>
<p>Set the temporary directory to something other than <code>/tmp</code> using Hiera.</p>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>
<p><a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/8e8eeb11dc273f1ecb49851ecfac8440ca0eaa32/pe/2016.1/install_uninstalling.markdown" target="_self">Uninstall puppet</a>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>On the master, create the file <code>/etc/puppetlabs/code/environments/production/hieradata/common.yaml</code> with the following contents:</p>
<pre><code># /etc/puppetlabs/code/environments/production/hieradata/common.yaml
puppet_enterprise::profile::master::java_args:
  'Djava.io.tmpdir': '=/some/other/temporary/directory'</code></pre>
</li>
<li>
<p>Set the permissions of the new temporary directory to 1777. This allows the Puppet Server JRuby process to write and execute files.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/8e8eeb11dc273f1ecb49851ecfac8440ca0eaa32/pe/2016.1/install_pe_mono.markdown" target="_self">Install PE.</a></p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>If this doesn’t solve your issue, please open a ticket.</p>
