# Removing nodes: Understanding "puppet node purge", "node-ttl", and "node-purge-ttl" in Puppet Enterprise 2015.2 to 2019.2
<p>Nodes can be removed from different components in your deployment using <a href="https://puppet.com/docs/pe/2019.2/adding_and_removing_nodes.html"><code>puppet node purge &lt;NODE NAME&gt;</code>,</a> <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/puppetdb/blob/doc-6.7/documentation/configure.markdown#node-ttl"><code>node-ttl</code></a>, and <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/puppetdb/blob/doc-6.7/documentation/configure.markdown#node-purge-ttl"><code>node-purge-ttl</code></a>. If you need to remove agentless nodes, <a href="https://puppet.com/docs/pe/2019.2/adding_and_removing_nodes_inventory.html#remove_nodes_from_inventory" target="_self">those steps are in our documentation</a>. You can also <a href="https://support.puppet.com/hc/en-us/articles/5405856413719">learn how to release licenses from inactive nodes</a>.</p>
<h3 id="version-and-installation-information">Version and installation information</h3>
<p><strong>PE version:</strong> 2015.2 to 2019.2, <a href="https://support.puppet.com/hc/en-us/articles/1500010845362" target="_self">View information for later versions</a><br><strong>OS:</strong> N/A<br><strong>Installation type:</strong> All</p>
<h3 id="solution">Solution</h3>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td> </td>
<td colspan="2"><strong>Use to manage deployment</strong></td>
<td colspan="2"><strong>Use to manage PuppetDB data</strong></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td> </td>
<td colspan="2">
<code>puppet node purge</code> combines:</td>
<td> </td>
<td> </td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><em>Command or setting</em></td>
<td><code>puppet node deactivate</code></td>
<td><code>puppet node clean</code></td>
<td><code>node-ttl</code></td>
<td><code>node-purge-ttl<code></code></code></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><em>What it does</em></td>
<td>Marks nodes <code>deactivated</code>
</td>
<td>Removes <code>deactivated</code> nodes from PE</td>
<td>Marks nodes <code>expired</code>
</td>
<td>Removes <code>expired</code> nodes from PuppetDB</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><em>When it happens</em></td>
<td colspan="2">Immediately</td>
<td colspan="2">After a specified interval</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><em>Permanent?</em></td>
<td colspan="2">Yes</td>
<td colspan="2">No. Nodes will be added back to PuppetDB after the next run.</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<h3 id="what-is-puppet-node-purge">What is <code>puppet node purge?</code>
</h3>
<p>Use <code>puppet node purge</code> to <a href="https://puppet.com/docs/pe/2019.2/adding_and_removing_nodes.html">completely remove nodes from your deployment</a>. The <a href="https://puppet.com/docs/pe/2019.2/adding_and_removing_nodes.html#remove_nodes"><code>puppet node purge</code></a> command is a wrapper around two separate commands:</p>
<p><code>puppet node deactivate</code> marks the node as <code>deactivated</code> in PuppetDB. Although the node remains present in PuppetDB, it no longer shows up in the console under <strong>Nodes &gt; Inventory</strong>. The node's report data is still available in the console.</p>
<p><code>puppet node clean</code> deletes the information cache, including certs and cached catalogs, for the node on the primary server (called the master in older versions of PE). This command creates a new CRL (certificate revocation list) and applies it to the primary server.</p>
<p>View nodes deactivated by <code>puppet node purge</code> by querying against the deactivated field:</p>
<p><code>curl -X GET http://localhost:8080/pdb/query/v4 --data-urlencode 'query=nodes { deactivated is not null }' | python -m json.tool</code></p>
<h3 id="what-are-node-ttl-and-node-purge-ttl">What are <code>node-ttl</code> and <code>node-purge-ttl</code>?</h3>
<p>Use <code>node-ttl</code> and <code>node-purge-ttl</code> to maintain your deployment. Both settings remove outdated node information from PuppetDB and free disk space. However, node removal is not permanent and certificates are not revoked. When a node is expired and purged with <code>node-ttl</code> and <code>node-purge-ttl</code>, the next Puppet run on that node adds it back to PuppetDB.</p>
<p><code>node-ttl</code> marks the node as <code>expired</code> in PuppetDB after a specified amount of time. Although the node remains present in PuppetDB, it no longer shows up in the console under <strong>Nodes &gt; Inventory</strong>. The node's report data is still available in the console.</p>
<p><code>node-purge-ttl</code> affects only <code>deactivated</code> or <code>expired</code> nodes in PuppetDB. It automatically purges nodes that have been <code>deactivated</code> or <code>expired</code> for a specified amount of time from PuppetDB. All facts, catalogs, and reports for the relevant nodes are deleted.</p>
<h4 id="understanding-when-nodes-are-expired-and-deleted-from-puppetdb-with-node-ttl-and-node-purge-ttl">Understanding when nodes are expired and deleted from PuppetDB with <code>node-ttl</code> and <code>node-purge-ttl</code>
</h4>
<p>Neither <code>node-ttl</code> nor <code>node-purge-ttl</code> affects nodes immediately.</p>
<p><code>node-ttl</code> is triggered when nodes have had no activity for a specified amount of time (no new catalogs, facts, or reports). If you set <code>node-ttl = 7d</code>, you might expect your nodes to expire 7 days after the last new catalog, fact or report. However, nodes won't be evaluated and expired until the first garbage collection (GC) 7 days after the last new catalog, fact or report.</p>
<p><code>node-purge-ttl</code> is triggered a specified amount of time after the node is deactivated or <code>expired</code>. If you set <code>node-purge-ttl=1h</code>, you might expect your node to be purged from PuppetDB one hour after your node expires or deactivates. However, it won't be evaluated and purged until the first GC after the hour has elapsed.</p>
<p>How often GC happens and when <code>node-ttl</code> and <code>node-purge-ttl</code> are effective is governed by the <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/puppetdb/blob/doc-6.7/documentation/configure.markdown#gc-interval"><code>gc-interval</code> setting</a>. For example, if <code>gc-interval</code> is set to 60 minutes (the default) and <code>node-ttl</code> is set to 5 minutes, the node exists in PuppetDB as an active node and is visible in the console for up to 60 minutes. During a GC run, <code>node-ttl</code> is evaluated. The node auto-expires if the <code>node-ttl</code> time interval (in this case 5 minutes) has passed since the last new activity on the node.</p>
<p>When an interval is specified for <code>node-purge-ttl</code>, it is applied during the GC run. For example:</p>
<pre>gc-interval = 5m
node-ttl = 4m
node-purge-ttl = 1h</pre>
<p><strong>Note:</strong> <code>d</code> stands for days, <code>m</code> stands for minutes, <code>s</code> stands for seconds. All example PuppetDB logs are located on the PuppetDB node (the primary server in a standard deployment) at <code>/var/log/puppetlabs/puppetdb/puppetdb.log</code>.</p>
<pre>2016-09-30 14:17:13,299 INFO  [p.p.c.services] Starting sweep of stale nodes (threshold: 4 minutes)
2016-09-30 14:17:13,306 INFO  [p.p.c.services] Auto-expired node nagios-client
2016-09-30 14:17:13,306 INFO  [p.p.c.services] Auto-expired node nagios-server
2016-09-30 14:17:13,307 INFO  [p.p.c.services] Finished sweep of stale nodes (threshold: 4 minutes)
2016-09-30 14:17:13,308 INFO  [p.p.c.services] Starting purge deactivated and expired nodes (threshold: 1 hour)
2016-09-30 14:17:13,309 INFO  [p.p.c.services] Finished purge deactivated and expired nodes (threshold: 1 hour)
2016-09-30 14:17:13,309 INFO  [p.p.c.services] Starting sweep of stale reports (threshold: 14 days)
2016-09-30 14:17:13,312 INFO  [p.p.c.services] Finished sweep of stale reports (threshold: 14 days)
2016-09-30 14:17:13,312 INFO  [p.p.c.services] Starting database garbage collection
2016-09-30 14:17:13,325 INFO  [p.p.c.services] Finished database garbage collection</pre>
<p>Using the default values:</p>
<pre>node-ttl = 7d
node-purge-ttl = 0s
report-ttl = 14d</pre>
<p><strong>Note:</strong> <code>report-ttl</code> automatically deletes reports that are older than the specified amount of time.</p>
<p>Setting <code>node-purge-ttl</code> with a value of 0s is equivalent to leaving the value unset. The GC doesn't purge nodes.</p>
<pre>gc-interval = 5m
node-ttl = 4m
node-purge-ttl = 0s</pre>
<pre>2016-09-30 14:27:06,272 INFO  [p.p.c.services] Starting sweep of stale nodes (threshold: 4 minutes)
2016-09-30 14:27:06,291 INFO  [p.p.c.services] Auto-expired node nagios
2016-09-30 14:27:06,294 INFO  [p.p.c.services] Finished sweep of stale nodes (threshold: 4 minutes)
2016-09-30 14:27:06,294 INFO  [p.p.c.services] Starting sweep of stale reports (threshold: 14 days)
2016-09-30 14:27:06,299 INFO  [p.p.c.services] Finished sweep of stale reports (threshold: 14 days)
2016-09-30 14:27:06,300 INFO  [p.p.c.services] Starting database garbage collection
2016-09-30 14:27:06,314 INFO  [p.p.c.services] Finished database garbage collection</pre>
<p>Leaving <code>node-ttl</code> and <code>node-purge-ttl</code> unset is equivalent to setting the value to 0 seconds. The GC doesn't expire or purge nodes.</p>
<p><code>gc-interval = 5m</code></p>
<p><code>node-ttl</code> - unset<br><code>node-purge-ttl</code> - unset</p>
<pre>2016-09-30 15:13:01,324 INFO  [p.p.c.services] Starting sweep of stale nodes (threshold: 7 days)
2016-09-30 15:13:01,329 INFO  [p.p.c.services] Finished sweep of stale nodes (threshold: 7 days)
2016-09-30 15:13:01,329 INFO  [p.p.c.services] Starting sweep of stale reports (threshold: 14 days)
2016-09-30 15:13:01,339 INFO  [p.p.c.services] Finished sweep of stale reports (threshold: 14 days)
2016-09-30 15:13:01,340 INFO  [p.p.c.services] Starting database garbage collection
2016-09-30 15:13:01,356 INFO  [p.p.c.services] Finished database garbage collection</pre>
<p>In the case where both values are set to 0s, exactly the same thing happens; neither interval is applied, and nodes remain in PuppetDB and the console. For example:</p>
<pre>gc-interval = 5m
node-ttl = 0s
node-purge-ttl = 0s
</pre>
<pre>2016-09-30 14:34:44,294 INFO  [p.p.c.services] Starting sweep of stale reports (threshold: 14 days)
2016-09-30 14:34:44,308 INFO  [p.p.c.services] Finished sweep of stale reports (threshold: 14 days)
2016-09-30 14:34:44,308 INFO  [p.p.c.services] Starting database garbage collection
2016-09-30 14:34:44,323 INFO  [p.p.c.services] Finished database garbage collection</pre>
<h3 id="how-do-i-configure-node-ttl-and-node-purge-ttl">How do I configure <code>node-ttl</code> and <code>node-purge-ttl</code>?</h3>
<p>View configuration settings for <code>node-ttl</code> and <code>node-purge-ttl</code> in the <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/puppetdb/blob/doc-6.7/documentation/configure.markdown#node-ttl">PuppetDB configuration file</a>. By default, this config file is located at <code>/etc/puppetlabs/puppetdb/conf.d on</code> your PuppetDB node, under the [database] section. Both settings must be edited in <a href="https://puppet.com/docs/pe/2019.2/making_changes_to_node_groups.html#edit-parameters">the console</a> in the <strong>PE PuppetDB </strong>group in the <code>puppet_enterprise::puppetdb</code> class.</p>
<p>By default, the settings maintaining your node information in PuppetDB are:</p>
<pre>node-ttl = 7d
node-purge-ttl = 0s
report-ttl = 14d</pre>
<p>Giving any of these three settings a value of 0s is equivalent to leaving the value unset and your nodes won't be expired or purged.</p>
<h3 id="how-do-i-view-nodes-impacted-by-node-ttl-and-node-purge-ttl">How do I view nodes impacted by <code>node-ttl</code> and <code>node-purge-ttl</code>?</h3>
<p>View expired nodes in PuppetDB by using PQL to query the PuppetDB API root endpoint using the expired field:</p>
<p><strong>In PE 2017.3 and later: </strong></p>
<p><code>
  curl -X GET http://localhost:8080/pdb/query/v4 --data-urlencode 'query=nodes
  { node_state = "inactive" }' | python -m json.tool</code></p>
<p><strong>In PE 2017.2 and earlier:</strong></p>
<p><code>curl -X GET http://localhost:8080/pdb/query/v4 --data-urlencode 'query=nodes { expired is not null }' | python -m json.tool</code></p>
<p>View expired and deactivated nodes by combining both queries using <code>or</code>.</p>
<p><code>curl -X GET http://localhost:8080/pdb/query/v4 --data-urlencode 'query=nodes { expired is not null or deactivated is not null }' | python -m json.tool</code></p>
