# Change the SSL protocol of the console service for Puppet Enterprise 2015.2 to 2016.4.3
<p><strong>Note:</strong> You can change SSL protocols in the console for later versions of Puppet Enterprise. See <a href="https://puppet.com/docs/pe/2019.1/enable_tlsv1.html">our documentation for PE 2019.1</a>. Use the appropriate version for your deployment.</p>
<p>For security reasons, your organization might need to restrict allowed SSL protocols for traffic to and from the PE console. You can limit traffic to any protocol(s) supported by NGINX.</p>
<p>The steps provided limit console traffic to the TLSv1.2 protocol, changing the value of NGINX’s <code>ssl_protocols</code> directive from the default of:</p>
<pre><code>ssl_protocols TLSv1 TLSv1.1 TLSv1.2;</code></pre>
<p>to</p>
<pre><code>ssl_protocols TLSv1.2;</code></pre>
<h3 id="version-and-installation-information">Version and installation information</h3>
<p><strong>PE version:</strong> 2015.2 to 2016.4.3</p>
<h3 id="solution">Solution</h3>
<p>Override the allowed SSL protocols in Hiera. You can't change the setting in the console.</p>
<p>The instructions below assume that Hiera is set up with the <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/master/hiera/3.1/configuring.markdown">default configuration</a>. If it’s not, you’ll need to adjust the instructions to match your deployment.</p>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>
<p>On the master, open the file <code>/etc/puppetlabs/code/environments/production/hieradata/common.yaml</code>. If it doesn’t exist, create it. Add the following key-value pair to the file to restrict the allowed SSL protocols to TLSv1.2:</p>
<p><code>---</code><br> <code>puppet_enterprise::profile::console::proxy::ssl_protocols: "TLSv1.2"</code></p>
</li>
<li>
<p>On the console node (the master in a monolithic deployment), complete the change by running <code>puppet agent -t</code>.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>For more information on NGINX’s <code>ssl_protocols</code>, read: <a class="uri" href="http://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_ssl_module.html#ssl_protocols">http://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_ssl_module.html#ssl_protocols</a></p>
