# Create a trusted fact, verify it, and then reference it in Hiera in Puppet Enterprise 2016.4 to 2018.1
<p>How do I create a <a href="https://puppet.com/docs/puppet/5.5/lang_facts_and_builtin_vars.html#trusted-facts">trusted fact</a>? How do I reference it in Hiera?</p>
<h3 id="version-and-installation-information">Version and installation information</h3>
<p><strong>PE version:</strong> 2016.4 to 2018.1<br> For later versions, <a href="https://support.puppet.com/hc/en-us/articles/360048560693" target="_self">use these steps</a>.<br> <br> <strong>Installation type:</strong> Any Unix</p>
<h3 id="solution">Solution</h3>
<ul>
<li>Create a <a href="https://puppet.com/docs/puppet/5.5/lang_facts_and_builtin_vars.html#trusted-facts">trusted fact</a>
</li>
<li>Verify it in a manifest</li>
<li>Use dot notation to refer to it in Hiera</li>
</ul>
<p><strong>Note:</strong> Verification steps are included to help you learn each part of the process. You wouldn't necessarily verify each step every time you create or reference a trusted fact.</p>
<h4 id="create-a-trusted-fact">Create a trusted fact</h4>
<p>Trusted facts are part of a node's certificate information. Add a trusted fact to a certificate by adding it as an extension to a certificate request. For our example, the fact is named <code>pp_image_name</code> and its value is <code>storefront_production</code>.</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>On the agent, edit <code>/etc/puppetlabs/puppet/csr_attributes.yaml</code>. In a default installation, this file doesn't exist. You'll need to create it. Add the following:</p>
<pre><code>---
  extension_requests:
   "pp_image_name": "storefront_production"</code></pre>
</li>
<li>
<p>Generate a certificate request. On the agent, run:</p>
<p><code>puppet agent --test</code></p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Verify the extension in the certificate request. Still on the agent, run:</p>
<p><code>openssl req -noout -text -in $(puppet config print requestdir)/$(facter fqdn).pem</code></p>
<p>Successful output includes the extension:</p>
<pre><code>
    Requested Extensions:
        1.3.6.1.4.1.34380.1.1.3:
            ..storefront_production
     ...</code></pre>
</li>
<li>
<p>If autosigning is disabled, sign the certificate request. On the master, run:</p>
<p><code>puppet cert sign &lt;certname of agent&gt;</code></p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Verify the extension in the signed certificate. Still on the master, run:</p>
<p><code>puppet cert print &lt;certname of agent&gt;</code></p>
<p>Successful output includes the cert with the added extension:</p>
<pre><code>     ...
        X509v3 extensions:
            Netscape Comment:
                .(Puppet Ruby/OpenSSL Internal Certificate
            Puppet Node Image Name:
                ..storefront_production
     ...</code></pre>
</li>
</ol>
<p>Your trusted fact has been created. You can reference the trusted fact in manifests or Hiera.</p>
<h4 id="reference-the-trusted-fact-in-a-manifest">Reference the trusted fact in a manifest</h4>
<p>We'll reference the trusted fact using the default manifest <code>/etc/puppetlabs/code/environments/production/manifests/site.pp</code>, but you can use any manifest.</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>On the master, edit <code>/etc/puppetlabs/code/environments/production/manifests/site.pp</code>. Reference the trusted fact using nested hashes with square brackets:<br> <br> <code>($trusted['extensions']['pp_image_name'])</code></p>
<p>For example:</p>
<pre><code>    class trusted_fact_test {
      $e = $trusted['extensions']['pp_image_name']
      notify { "pp_image_name = $e": }
      }
    node default {
      include trusted_fact_test
    }</code></pre>
</li>
<li>
<p>Verify that the trusted fact is referenced in the manifest. On the agent, run:</p>
<p><code>puppet agent --test</code></p>
<p>Successful output includes the trusted fact:</p>
<pre><code>...
Info: Applying configuration version '327e12976bc82c6f6fff1c2e3d7e47270797da7e'
Notice: pp_image_name = storefront_production
Notice: /Stage[main]/Trusted_fact_test/Notify/message: defined 'message' as 'pp_image_name = storefront_production'
Notice: Applied catalog in 0.33 seconds</code></pre>
</li>
</ol>
<h4 id="reference-data-in-hiera-associated-with-the-trusted-fact">Reference data in Hiera associated with the trusted fact</h4>
<ol>
<li>
<p>On the master, create a .<code>yaml</code> file containing data related to the trusted fact.</p>
<p>For example, in <code>/etc/puppetlabs/code/environments/production/hieradata/pp_images/storefront_production.yaml</code>:</p>
<pre><code>---
pp_image_name::description: 'Storefront Production Pool'</code></pre>
</li>
<li>
<p>Add the <code>.yaml</code> file to your hierarchy, using dot notation to reference the trusted fact: <code>(%{::trusted.extensions.pp_image_name})</code> For example:</p>
<p><code>/etc/puppetlabs/puppet/hiera.yaml</code></p>
<pre><code>---
:backends:
  - yaml
:hierarchy:
  - "nodes/%{::trusted.certname}"
  - "pp_images/%{::trusted.extensions.pp_image_name}"
  - common
:yaml:
:datadir:</code></pre>
</li>
<li>
<p>In a manifest, reference data in Hiera associated with the trusted fact. For example:</p>
<p><code>/etc/puppetlabs/code/environments/production/manifests/site.pp</code></p>
<pre><code>class trusted_fact_hiera_test {
  $h = hiera('pp_image_name::description')
  notify { "pp_image_name :: description = $h": }
}
node default {
  include trusted_fact_hiera_test
}</code></pre>
</li>
<li>
<p>Restart <code>puppetserver</code> to apply your changes to <code>hiera.yaml</code>. On the master run:</p>
<pre><code>puppet resource service pe-puppetserver ensure=stopped
puppet resource service pe-puppetserver ensure=running</code></pre>
</li>
<li>
<p>On the master, verify the data in Hiera associated with the trusted fact. Run:</p>
<p><code>puppet lookup --node &lt;certname of agent&gt; pp_image_name::description --explain</code></p>
<p>Successful output includes the data:</p>
<pre><code>--- Storefront Production Pool
...</code></pre>
</li>
<li>
<p>On the agent, verify the data in Hiera associated with the trusted fact. Run:</p>
<p><code>puppet agent --test</code></p>
<p>Successful output includes the data:</p>
<pre><code>...
Notice: pp_image_name :: description = Storefront Production Pool
Notice: /Stage[main]/Trusted_fact_hiera_test/Notify[pp_image_name :: description = Storefront Production Pool]/message: defined 'message' as 'pp_image_name :: description = Storefront Production Pool'
Notice: Applied catalog in 0.33 seconds</code></pre>
<p><strong>Note:</strong> You cannot use <code>puppet apply</code> to verify the trusted fact, since it applies a cached manifest using local authentication. When <code>$trusted['authenticated'] = local</code> <code>$trusted['extensions']</code>is an empty hash.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p><strong>Additional resources:</strong></p>
<ul>
<li><a href="https://puppet.com/docs/puppet/5.5/ssl_attributes_extensions.html">CSR attributes and certificate extensions</a></li>
<li><a href="https://puppet.com/docs/puppet/5.5/lang_facts_and_builtin_vars.html#trusted-facts">Trusted facts</a></li>
<li><a href="https://puppet.com/docs/puppet/5.5/man/lookup.html"><code>puppet-lookup</code> - Interactive Hiera lookup</a></li>
</ul>
