# Console password reset for Puppet Enterprise 2019.0.0 and 2019.0.1
<p>I can’t log in to the console as the admin user, and am getting an incorrect username/console error. When I follow <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/2019.0/console_accessing.md#troubleshooting-login-to-the-pe-admin-account">the documentation to reset the console admin password for PE 2019.0</a>, I get an <code>invalid option</code> error.</p>
<p><strong>Note:</strong> If you need to reset the password in the most recent version of Puppet Enterprise, <a href="https://puppet.com/docs/pe/latest/console_log_in.html#generate_a_user_password_reset_token" target="_self">the steps are in our documentation</a>.</p>
<h3 id="error-messages-and-logs">Error messages and logs</h3>
<p>When you run <code>puppet infra console_password --password=&lt;MY_PASSWORD&gt;</code>, it outputs an error message containing <code>could not parse application option, invalid option --password=...</code>.</p>
<p>The <code>puppet infra console_password</code> command was added in PE 2019.0.2, so the instructions in documentation won’t work for PE 2019.0.0 and 2019.0.1. </p>
<h3 id="version-and-installation-information">Version and installation information</h3>
<p><strong>PE version:</strong> 2019.0.0, 2019.0.1</p>
<p><strong>Note</strong>: PE 2019.0 is end of life. Upgrade to a supported version of PE as soon as possible. For details, see <a href="https://puppet.com/products/puppet-enterprise/product-support-lifecycle/">the Puppet Enterprise lifecycle policy</a>.</p>
<h3 id="solution">Solution</h3>
<p>To reset the console admin password in these specific PE versions, run the <code>set_console_admin_password.rb</code> utility script. You must run the script in the command line on the server where the console component is installed. It cannot be run on the master in a split installation.</p>
<ol type="1">
<li>
<p>Log into the console node as root (the master in a monolithic installation).</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Run the <code>set_console_admin_password.rb</code> script:</p>
<p><code>/opt/puppetlabs/puppet/bin/ruby /opt/puppetlabs/server/bin/set_console_admin_password.rb &lt;NEW_PASSWORD&gt;</code></p>
<p>If successful, the command does not produce any output.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Log into the console. Enter the password directly. If you copy and paste the password, you might add special characters such as line breaks that might cause issues with either the password reset script or the console login form.</p>
<p>If you can’t log in, run the above command again to ensure that the password you set matches the one you’re entering.</p>
</li>
</ol>
