# Puppet Pipelines End of Life notice
<p>After five great years of helping engineers automate continuous integration workflows, first as Distelli and then as Puppet, we have decided to discontinue Puppet Pipelines. Moving forward, we will focus our automation energy on tooling that tackles the emerging set of cloud-native continuous delivery challenges. We hope you join us on the next leg of the cloud delivery automation journey. In the meantime, here are a few important things to note.</p>
<h2 id="what-does-this-mean-for-my-puppet-pipelines-saas-account">What does this mean for my Puppet Pipelines SaaS account?</h2>
<p>Puppet will be decommissioning the Puppet Pipelines product on 31 January 2020. This change affects Puppet Pipelines, which includes Pipelines for Applications and Pipelines for Containers. The SaaS service will no longer be available after 31 January 2020.</p>
<p>Paying customers' billing will be canceled on or before the 31 January 2020 EOL date. Customers who are billed annually and whose next renewal date is beyond 31 January 2020 will receive a prorated refund on or before the EOL date.</p>
<p>If you need documentation after that date, <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive" target="_self">we've archived Pipelines documentation and articles</a>.</p>
<h2 id="are-there-other-tools-i-can-use-to-replace-pipelines">Are there other tools I can use to replace Pipelines?</h2>
<p>There are a number of tools that have gained popularity in the continuous integration (CI) and continuous deployment (CD) space. Recently, the Linux Foundation announced the formation of the Continuous Delivery Foundation to provide a space for the industry to standardize and collaborate on CI and CD projects. The projects that are sponsored by the Continuous Delivery Foundation, including Jenkins, JenkinsX, and Spinnaker; are good candidates to evaluate migrating your CI/CD workloads to from Pipelines.</p>
<p>For users who would prefer a hosted solution, we recommend evaluating Travis CI, CloudBees, and Octopus Deploy. And finally, if you're a cloud user, we recommend you evaluate your cloud providers' CI service.</p>
<h2 id="how-can-i-learn-more-about-puppets-cloud-native-projects-and-continuous-delivery-offering">How can I learn more about Puppet's cloud-native projects?</h2>
<p>Check out <a href="https://relay.sh/" target="_self">Relay by Puppet</a>, event-driven automation that connects the cloud providers, DevOps tools, and other APIs you already use.</p>
<h3 id="task-execution-download-bolt.">Task execution: <a href="https://puppet.com/open-source/bolt/">Download Bolt</a>.</h3>
<p>Bolt is an open source, agentless multi-platform automation tool that reduces your time to automation. Bolt's task running and orchestration capabilities extend to all manner of targets and transports, making it easy to perform various tasks, from simple things like starting and stopping services to setting up Docker or Kubernetes.</p>
<p>Thank you for your patronage and best regards.</p>
