# AIX agent runs fail with facter errors in Puppet Enterprise 2016.4 to 2018.1
<p>Agent runs fail on AIX nodes with an error that facter cannot find Object Data Manager (ODM) object classes.</p>
<h3 id="error-messages-and-logs">Error messages and logs</h3>
<p>Agent runs fail on AIX nodes with the error:</p>
<p><code>Error: Facter: Facter.to_hash uncaught exception: 0519-010 libodm: The specified object class does not exist.
Check path name and permissions.</code><br><code>Error: Could not retrieve local facts: undefined method `[]=' for nil:NilClass
Error: Failed to apply catalog: Could not retrieve local facts: undefined method `[]=' for nil:NilClass</code></p>
<p>This occurs because the agent cannot access ODM classes when collecting memory facts with facter during the Puppet run.</p>
<h3 id="version-and-installation-information">Version and installation information</h3>
<p><strong>PE version:</strong> 2016.4 to 2018.1<br><strong>OS:</strong> AIX 7.2<br><strong>Installation type:</strong> Any</p>
<h3 id="solution">Solution</h3>
<p>This issue occurs when the session running the agent cannot access ODM classes.</p>
<p>To determine the reason that the agent cannot access the ODM classes:</p>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>
<p>On the affected AIX node, run the following command in the current session:</p>
<pre><code>odmget -q "value=paging and attribute=type" CuAt</code></pre>
<p>When the command fails, it outputs the following:</p>
<pre><code># odmget -q "value=paging and attribute=type" CuAt
0518-506 odmget: Cannot open object class CuAt
        Check path name and permissions.</code></pre>
</li>
<li>
<p>Ensure that you are running the agent as the root user and that the environment variable <code>$ODMDIR</code> is set to the object repo path, which by default is <code>/etc/objrepos</code>. On the affected AIX node, run:</p>
<pre><code># whoami
root
# echo $ODMDIR
/etc/objrepos</code></pre>
</li>
<li>
<p>If the <code>$ODMDIR</code> environment variable is not set, review the current environment settings in <code>/etc/environment</code> and the method you used to log in as the root user. For example, if you have a misconfigured <code>/etc/environment</code> or use PowerBroker to log in, the environment might not populate properly. Correct the issues.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Run the following command in the current session to verify there are no errors:</p>
<pre><code>odmget -q "value=paging and attribute=type" CuAt</code></pre>
</li>
<li>
<p>Check that agent runs are working, run <code>puppet agent -t</code>.</p>
</li>
</ol>
