# Console LDAP authentication is broken after upgrading to Puppet Enterprise 2018.1 and later
<p>You are using a wildcard certificate for your LDAP server. After you upgrade to PE 2018.1 or later from any version prior to 2018.1, you are not able to log into the console, and LDAP authentication fails.</p>
<h3 id="error-messages-and-logs">Error messages and logs</h3>
<p>You get the following error message in <code>/var/log/puppetlabs/console-services/console-services.log</code>:</p>
<p><code>Hostname verification failed because the expected hostname 'ldap.abc.com’' was not found in peer certificate 'subject='CN=*.abc.com</code></p>
<p>In PE 2018.1, hostname and wildcard configuration options were added to the RBAC directory services to validate that the certificate and the hostname for the connecting client match. By default,<code>ssl_hostname_validation</code> is set to <code>true</code> and <code>ssl_wildcard_validation</code> is set to <code>false</code>.</p>
<p>LDAP SSL authentication fails using these settings if the certificate installed doesn't match LDAP server FQDN (for example when you have a wildcard certificate).</p>
<h3 id="version-and-installation-information">Version and installation information</h3>
<p><strong>PE version:</strong> 2018.1 and later versions</p>
<p><strong>Installation type:</strong> monolithic</p>
<h3 id="solution">Solution</h3>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>
<p>On the primary server (called the master in older versions of PE), export your directory services (DS) configuration to a file named <code>ds.txt</code>:</p>
<p><code>curl -X GET --cert $(puppet config print hostcert) --key $(puppet config print hostprivkey) --cacert $(puppet config print localcacert) https://$(hostname -f):4433/rbac-api/v1/ds &gt; ds.txt</code></p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Edit <code>ds.txt</code> and update <code>ssl_hostname_validation</code>* and/or <code>ssl_wildcard_validation</code> to <code>true</code> or <code>false</code> as necessary.</p>
<p>If the SSL certificate uses a wildcard certificate, set both to true. If the SSL certificate CN is different from the LDAP server FQDN, set both to false.</p>
<p><strong>Note:</strong> Setting both to false has security implications. <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/2018.1/2018.1_markdown/pe_enhancements.md#security-201810">Read more about it in our documentation</a>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Test the changed settings:</p>
<p><code>curl -i -X PUT -H "Content-Type: application/json" --cert $(puppet config print hostcert) --key $(puppet config print hostprivkey) --cacert $(puppet config print localcacert) https://$(hostname -f):4433/rbac-api/v1/ds/test -d @ds.txt</code></p>
<p>If the new settings are successful, this will return <code>HTTP 200</code>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>If the test was successful, apply the new settings. Run:</p>
<p><code>curl -i -X PUT -H "Content-Type: application/json" --cert $(puppet config print hostcert) --key $(puppet config print hostprivkey) --cacert $(puppet config print localcacert) https://$(hostname -f):4433/rbac-api/v1/ds -d @ds.txt</code></p>
</li>
</ol>
