# Withdrawn: Confirm that your Puppet Enterprise installation is ready for an upgrade
<p><code>puppetlabs_preupgrade_check</code> is deprecated and its function migrated into the installer process in 2019.8.</p>
<p>An upgrade is available for your Puppet Enterprise infrastructure, and you want to verify that it is in a stable and well-provisioned state before proceeding.</p>
<h3 id="version-and-installation-information">Version and installation information</h3>
<p><strong>PE version:</strong> 2018.1 and later<br><strong>OS:</strong> Unix</p>
<h3 id="solution">Solution</h3>
<p>Before, during, and after upgrading, check for details that can ensure whether different types of upgrades will go smoothly.</p>
<p>Verify that your infrastructure is ready for an upgrade by installing the <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/preupgrade_check"><code>puppetlabs-preupgrade_check</code> module</a> and running a Puppet Bolt plan. You can use the output from the plan in this article to proceed with your upgrade or to request assistance from Puppet Support.</p>
<h3 id="glossary">Glossary</h3>
<p>When this document refers to infrastructure nodes, it means nodes in the PE Infrastructure node group in the PE Console, which should include the primary server (called the master in older versions of PE), compilers, and PE database nodes. This is distinct from agent nodes, which are the systems being managed by PE infrastructure nodes.</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p><strong>Z-release upgrades (minor update):</strong> Within a PE version series. For example, PE 2019.8.1 to PE 2019.8.7. Minor updates consist mostly of bug fixes and package updates and can be applied easily, especially in standard (monolithic) architectures.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>Incremental X- or Y-release upgrades (major upgrades):</strong> From one PE version series to the next. For example, PE 2019.8 to PE 2021. These upgrades have increased complexity due to the addition of new features and component changes that may require configuration to be updated prior to the upgrade.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>Long term support (LTS) upgrades:</strong> From one PE LTS release to the next. For example, PE 2018.1 LTS to PE 2019.8 LTS. These upgrades include major changes to component versions that require you to audit and revise code and modules for compatibility. Deprecated deployment architectures, operating systems, and components may also be removed which can require a migration instead of an in-place upgrade.</p>
</li>
</ul>
<h3 id="running-the-preupgrade_check-plan">Running the <code>preupgrade_check</code> plan</h3>
<p>This plan requires the following:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>Bolt 3.x or later</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>A user account on infrastructure nodes that can gain elevated (<code>sudo</code>) privileges without a password prompt</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>A valid SSH key for the workstation used to run this plan, added to the infrastructure nodes’ <code>authorized_keys</code></p>
</li>
</ul>
<p>The plan uses Bolt’s SSH transport and relies on targeting nodes that can gain elevated permissions without a password prompt. Bolt has additional options for authentication; for details, see <a href="https://puppet.com/docs/bolt/latest/bolt_command_reference.html">its documentation</a>.</p>
<p>Bolt assumes that the target nodes have been connected to via SSH before. If you run the <code>preupgrade_check</code> plan on a node that isn’t in your workstation’s <code>known_hosts</code> file, the plan might report unexpected errors. Before running the plan, confirm that you can SSH into the affected nodes and gain elevated permissions.</p>
<p>The tasks copy and run scripts to the nodes as root. You can run these scripts manually to gather data by copying and running the <code>check_os.sh</code> and <code>check_time.sh</code> scripts from the module’s <code>tasks</code> directory on infrastructure nodes. Note that this produces only debug mode JSON output; the logic to check the output for potential issues is in the plan, not the tasks.</p>
<ol type="1">
<li>
<p>On a workstation that can SSH to the PE primary server, <a href="https://puppet.com/docs/bolt/latest/bolt_installing.html">install Puppet Bolt</a>.</p>
<p><strong>Note:</strong> We do not recommend running this plan from the console, nor do we recommend installing Bolt on the primary server.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Create <a href="https://puppet.com/docs/bolt/latest/getting_started_with_bolt.html#create-a-bolt-project-and-set-up-targets" target="_self">a new Bolt project</a> and add the following configuration to <code>bolt-project.yaml</code>:</p>
<pre>modules:
- git: https://github.com/puppetlabs/preupgrade_check.git
ref: main
</pre>
</li>
<li>
<p>Run <code>bolt module install</code>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Prepare a list of Puppet Enterprise infrastructure nodes’ full hostnames in a text file (<code>nodefile.txt</code>), adding one entry per line. This list should be the same as your PE Infrastructure node group’s matched nodes.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Run the <code>preupgrade_check</code> plan from the command line: <code>bolt plan run preupgrade_check --run-as root --targets @nodefile.txt</code></p>
<p><strong>Example output:</strong></p>
<p>If the check does not find any problems with the target nodes, it reports:</p>
<pre>Plan completed successfully with no result</pre>
<p>Otherwise, it reports either an error message or a JSON object with warnings about the node’s state.</p>
<p>If the plan reports any problems, run it in debug mode and report the result by opening a ticket with Puppet Support before proceeding with the upgrade. To run in debug mode, add the <code>debug=true</code> option:</p>
<pre>bolt plan run preupgrade_check debug=true --run-as root --targets @nodefile.txt</pre>
<p>This outputs details about the infrastructure nodes, which Support can use to identify issues and advise you.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<h3 id="special-considerations-in-customized-infrastructures">Special considerations in customized infrastructures</h3>
<p>If you’ve performed specialized configuration in the past, or aren’t sure, it’s worth checking whether default PE settings or configurations have been altered before upgrading.</p>
<p><strong>Disable cached catalogs on infrastructure nodes:</strong> Cached catalogs can help nodes run when they don’t have access to a primary server, but can cause conflicts during an upgrade. By default, infrastructure nodes do not use cached catalogs.</p>
<p><strong>Disable no-op on infrastructure nodes:</strong> Running Puppet in no-op mode makes it easier to approve specific changes, but no-op mode can prevent upgrades on infrastructure nodes. By default, infrastructure nodes do not enable no-op mode.</p>
<p><strong>Ensure agent runs are successful on all infrastructure components:</strong> You can view this in the nodes belonging to the PE Infrastructure node group. If any infrastructure nodes aren’t successfully completing Puppet runs, the upgrade might fail.</p>
<p><strong>If your infrastructure is air-gapped (no internet connection), download installation packages first:</strong> Download <a href="https://puppet.com/misc/pe-files/pe_repo">agent packages</a> (see the <a href="https://puppet.com/docs/pe/latest/installing_agents.html">agent installation documentation</a>) as well the PE installation tarball.</p>
<p><strong>If you use a proxy, verify the configuration:</strong> If your primary server uses a proxy server to access the internet, prior to installation, specify <code>pe_repo::http_proxy_host</code> and <code>pe_repo::http_proxy_port</code> parameters in pe.conf, Hiera, or in the PE console in the <code>pe_repo</code> class of the PE Master node group.</p>
<h3 id="check-and-upgrade-your-modules">Check and upgrade your modules</h3>
<p>Upgrading Puppet Enterprise, especially across major versions, can introduce breaking changes to Puppet that affect not only your own code but also code from modules you’ve installed from other sources.</p>
<p>For modules you’ve written, <a href="https://puppet.com/docs/pe/latest/upgrading_pe.html#test_modules_before_pe_upgrade">test them before upgrading</a> using the Puppet Development Kit (PDK), which lets you run module tests in simulated environments from your PE upgrade target version.</p>
<p>If you use modules from the Puppet Forge in your environments, confirm that the installed versions of those modules are compatible with the version of PE that you’re upgrading to, and if necessary update your Puppet code and upgrade those modules to be compatible before initiating the upgrade.</p>
<p><strong>Note:</strong> We recommend using <a href="https://puppet.com/docs/pe/latest/puppetfile.html">Puppetfiles</a> to install, manage, and upgrade modules from the Puppet Forge. Doing so typically does not automatically upgrade modules, so the versions that existed when you first added them to your Puppetfile stay in place until you edit your Puppetfile to specify newer versions. If you do not use Puppetfiles, r10k, or Code Manager, or if you install Forge modules from an internal store or control repo branch, first determine how Forge modules are installed and maintained in your infrastructure, and then update them appropriately.</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>Examine your environments’ Puppetfiles for Forge modules. Note each Forge module’s name and the version installed, if one is specified.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Check each module’s Forge page for the current version, and click the Compatibility tab to determine whether the current version of that module is compatible with your version of PE. For modules supported by Puppet, which have the <strong>Supported</strong> tag on the Forge, we recommend upgrading to the newest version that lists compatibility with both your current PE version and the version you’re upgrading to before upgrading PE.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>If a module is out of date, read the release notes for its current version for any potentially breaking changes to the module that would require you to update your Puppet code.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>If necessary, make any required or recommended adjustments to your Puppet code by the documentation in the modules’ newer versions.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Edit your Puppetfile in each environment to specify an updated version of each outdated module. If you have test or development environments, update those Puppetfiles first, continue with the next steps to catch any issues with the upgraded modules, then return to this step to update your production environment. Updating modules individually can also help isolate whether updating a specific module causes problems with your code.</p>
<p><strong>Caution:</strong> The Puppetfile does NOT include Forge module dependency resolution. You must make sure that you install and update every module needed for all of your specified modules to run. This can include updating some modules in tandem.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Deploy your code to update modules based on the Puppetfile. For example, to deploy all environments, run <code>puppet code deploy --all</code>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Perform a Puppet run to confirm that the agent can still compile and apply catalogs with the upgraded modules, and run with the <code>-debug</code> and <code>-logdest</code> flags to capture log output to help diagnose any problems: <code>puppet agent --test --debug --logdest /tmp/agent-debug.log</code>.</p>
</li>
</ul>
<p>If no version of a module exists that is compatible with both your current version of PE and the version you’re upgrading to, use the newest version of the module that lists compatibility with your current version of PE, then repeat these steps after upgrading to install a version of the module compatible with your new PE version.</p>
<p>If no version of a module that you use lists compatibility with the version of PE that you’re upgrading to, contact the module’s maintainer. If a module is no longer maintained and you must use an alternative module, you must also update any Puppet code that invokes the older module.</p>
<p>If upgrading a module causes an environment’s Puppet code to fail prior to upgrading PE, you can also downgrade the module version in the environment’s Puppetfile.</p>
<h3 id="check-for-deprecations-and-removals">Check for deprecations and removals</h3>
<p>Major components might be deprecated or removed between major versions, requiring additional preparation before updating. For example, MCollective was deprecated in PE 2018.1 and removed in PE 2019.0. For details, see the <a href="https://puppet.com/docs/pe/latest/release_notes_pe.html">PE release notes</a> for all major versions between your current and target version.</p>
