# Puppet Plug-in v3.0 and 3.1 for vRealize Automation: adding a Puppet master fails in Puppet Enterprise 2016.4.x to 2018.1.x
<p>In the vRO client, when you run the Add a Puppet Enterprise Master workflow, it fails with a runtime exception.</p>
<h3 id="error-messages-and-logs">Error messages and logs</h3>
<p>In the vRO client, when you run the Add a Puppet Enterprise Master workflow, you get either of the following messages:</p>
<p><code>Unable to create a vCO endpoint of type 'Puppet'. Reason: 'Failed to add Master. Exception: (RuntimeException: Failed to get Facter fact) (Workflow:Add a Puppet Enterprise Master / Add a Puppet Enterprise Master (item1)#7)'</code></p>
<p><code>Unable to create a vCO endpoint of type 'Puppet'. Reason: 'Failed to add Master. Exception: (JSchException: Auth cancel) (Workflow:Add a Puppet Enterprise Master / Add a Puppet Enterprise Master (item1)#7)'</code></p>
<h3 id="version-and-installation-information">Version and installation information</h3>
<p><strong>PE version:</strong> 2016.4.x to 2018.1.x</p>
<h3 id="solution">Solution</h3>
<p>The issue occurs because requirements for the plug-in are not met. The user for the workflow cannot complete the facter command needed to get the current PE version and add the master. Classification for the plug-in must also be correct for the workflow to succeed.</p>
<p><a href="https://puppet.com/docs/vro/3.x/install_and_config_reference_implementation.html">Learn more about vRO configuration</a>.</p>
<p>To add the master, the <code>vro-plugin-user</code> user must:</p>
<ul>
<li>Be able to SSH into the master from the vRO client.</li>
<li>Be either using <code>root</code> or be able to run Puppet commands without entering a password for sudo.</li>
</ul>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>
<p>Check that the user meets the requirements: SSH into the master with the <code>vro-plugin-user</code> credentials and run the following command: <code>sudo /opt/puppetlabs/bin/facter -p pe_server_version</code> When the command runs successfully, the output is your version of PE, for example, <code>2017.3.2</code>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>If you are unable to SSH into the master with the <code>vro-plugin-user</code> credentials, confirm that classification is correct.</p>
<p>Ensure that the <code>vro_plugin_sshd</code> and <code>vro_plugin_user</code> classes are classified for the master. If you see any errors, fix them.</p>
<ol>
<ol>
<li>
<p>In the console, navigate to <strong>Classification &gt; All Nodes</strong>. Under <strong>All Nodes</strong>, if the <strong>Autosign and vRO Plugin User and sshd config</strong> node group is not present, install the <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/puppet-vro-starter_content">Puppet vRO Starter Content</a>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>In the <strong>Rules</strong> tab, ensure the master is pinned to the <strong>Autosign and vRO Plugin User and sshd config</strong> node group.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>In the <strong>Classes</strong> tab, ensure that the <code>vro_plugin_sshd</code>, <code>vro_plugin_user</code>, and <code>autosign_example</code> classes are present.</p>
</li>
</ol>
</ol>
</li>
<li>
<p>Run <code>puppet agent -t</code> on the master.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>SSH into the master as the <code>vro-plugin-user</code> and run the facter command again:</p>
<pre><code>sudo /opt/puppetlabs/bin/facter -p pe_server_version</code></pre>
</li>
</ol>
<h3 id="troubleshooting-os-issues">Troubleshooting OS issues</h3>
<p>If you are not able to run the command successfully, use the following troubleshooting sections to fix OS issues.</p>
<h4 id="unable-to-ssh-into-the-master"><strong>Unable to SSH into the master</strong></h4>
<p>If you are unable to SSH in to the master after completing the steps above, check the following items on the master.</p>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>
<p>Ensure that the SSH configuration allows password authenticated logins. In <code>/etc/ssh/sshd_config</code> check that the following lines are present:</p>
<pre><code>PermitRootLogin yes
PasswordAuthentication yes
ChallengeResponseAuthentication no</code></pre>
</li>
<li>
<p>Ensure that the <code>vro_plugin_user</code> is allowed to SSH into the master. Open <code>/etc/ssh/sshd_config</code> and check for configuration issues. Commonly, the <code>AllowUsers</code> setting is enabled but does not contain the <code>vro-plugin-user</code>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Ensure that the <code>/etc/ssh/sshd_config</code> has been read by restarting the <code>ssh</code> service.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>If you have an issue using SSH after fixing these items above, work with your OS vendor to troubleshoot the issue.</p>
<h4 id="unable-to-run-sudo-commands-without-entering-a-password"><strong>Unable to run sudo commands without entering a password</strong></h4>
<p>If you are unable to run sudo commands with the <code>vro-plugin-user</code> without entering a password after completing the steps above, check the following items on the master.</p>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>
<p>Ensure the file <code>/etc/sudoers.d/vro-plugin-user</code> exists and contains entries with <code>NOPASSWD</code> in them.</p>
<p>For example:</p>
<pre><code>vro-plugin-user ALL = (root) NOPASSWD: /opt/puppetlabs/bin/facter -p puppetversion</code></pre>
<p>If it does not, check the Puppet catalog for items that modify the sudoers file.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>In <code>/etc/sudoers</code>, ensure that <code>/etc/sudoers.d/</code> is included.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Ensure that no other configuration options prevent the <code>vro-plugin-user</code> from using sudo without a password. Check sudo access for <code>vro-plugin-user</code> by logging in and running <code>sudo -l</code>.</p>
<p>For example:</p>
<pre><code>$ sudo -l
Matching Defaults entries for vro-plugin-user on this host:
    !visiblepw, always_set_home, env_reset, env_keep="COLORS DISPLAY HOSTNAME HISTSIZE INPUTRC KDEDIR LS_COLORS", env_keep+="MAIL PS1 PS2 QTDIR USERNAME
    LANG LC_ADDRESS LC_CTYPE", env_keep+="LC_COLLATE LC_IDENTIFICATION LC_MEASUREMENT LC_MESSAGES", env_keep+="LC_MONETARY LC_NAME LC_NUMERIC LC_PAPER
    LC_TELEPHONE", env_keep+="LC_TIME LC_ALL LANGUAGE LINGUAS _XKB_CHARSET XAUTHORITY", secure_path=/sbin\:/bin\:/usr/sbin\:/usr/bin, !requiretty
User vro-plugin-user may run the following commands on this host:
    (root) NOPASSWD: /opt/puppetlabs/bin/puppet node purge *
    (root) NOPASSWD: !/opt/puppetlabs/bin/puppet node purge *[[\:blank\:]]*
    (root) NOPASSWD: /opt/puppetlabs/bin/puppet config print *
    (root) NOPASSWD: !/opt/puppetlabs/bin/puppet config print *[[\:blank\:]]*
    (root) NOPASSWD: /opt/puppetlabs/bin/facter -p puppetversion
    (root) NOPASSWD: /opt/puppetlabs/bin/facter -p pe_server_version
    (root) NOPASSWD: /opt/puppetlabs/bin/puppet agent -t
    (root) NOPASSWD: /opt/puppetlabs/bin/puppet agent --test --color\=false --detailed-exitcodes
    (root) NOPASSWD: /bin/kill -HUP *
    (root) NOPASSWD: !/bin/kill -HUP *[[\:blank\:]]*
    (root) NOPASSWD: !/opt/puppetlabs/bin/puppet node purge pe-201734-master.puppetdebug.vlan
    (root) NOPASSWD: !/opt/puppetlabs/bin/puppet node purge pe-internal-mcollective-servers
    (root) NOPASSWD: !/opt/puppetlabs/bin/puppet node purge pe-internal-peadmin-mcollective-client
    (root) NOPASSWD: /opt/puppetlabs/bin/puppet resource service puppet ensure\=stopped
    (root) NOPASSWD: /opt/puppetlabs/bin/puppet resource service puppet ensure\=running enable\=true
    (root) NOPASSWD: /bin/cp /etc/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl/ca/ca_crl.pem /etc/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl/crl.pem</code></pre>
<p>If the sudo issue persists after checking these items, work with your OS vendor to troubleshoot the issue.</p>
</li>
</ol>
