# Error while provisioning a high availability replica: 'sync_peers' index 0 entry 'port' expects an Integer value, got String; in Puppet Enterprise 2016.5 to 2017.3
<p>While setting up high availability (HA), during replica provisioning, you get a <code>'sync_peers' index 0 entry 'port' expects an Integer value, got String</code> error.</p>
<p><code>Could not retrieve catalog from remote server: Error 500 on SERVER: Server Error: Evaluation Error: Error while evaluating a Resource Statement, Evaluation Error: Error while evaluating a Resource Statement, Class[Puppet_enterprise::Puppetdb]: parameter 'sync_peers' index 0 entry 'port' expects an Integer value, got String at /opt/puppetlabs/puppet/modules/puppet_enterprise/manifests/profile/puppetdb.pp:92:3 on node &lt;nodename&gt;</code></p>
<p>You get this error when the <code>puppet_enterprise::puppetdb</code> parameter is set with a <code>String</code> value (commonly <code>"8081"</code>). Although <code>String</code> is an accepted data type, when <code>sync_peers</code> is populated during replica provisioning, <code>Integer</code> is the only acceptable data type.</p>
<h3 id="version-and-installation-information">Version and installation information</h3>
<p><strong>PE version:</strong> 2016.5 to 2017.3</p>
<p><strong>Installation type:</strong> Any including HA</p>
<h3 id="solution">Solution</h3>
<p>The <code>puppetdb_port</code> parameter is by default set to 8081. If you’re using the default PuppetDB port (8081) fix this issue by removing the <code>puppetdb_port</code> parameter in the console or Hiera.</p>
<p><strong>In the console</strong></p>
<p>Remove the <code>puppetdb_port</code> parameter.</p>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>
<p>In the console, click <strong>Classification</strong>, and select <strong>PE PuppetDB</strong>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Remove the parameter. On the <strong>Configuration</strong> tab in the <strong>Classes</strong> section under <code>puppet_enterprise::profile::puppetdb</code> find the <code>puppetdb_port</code> parameter and select <strong>Remove</strong>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><strong>Commit</strong> changes.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>If the issue persists, the value for the <code>puppetdb_port</code> parameter might have been set in Hiera.</p>
<p><strong>In Hiera</strong></p>
<p>Find the file where the parameter is set and remove it.</p>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>
<p>Most commonly, <code>puppetdb_port</code> is set in <code>/etc/puppetlabs/enterprise/conf.d/common.conf</code>. Make sure you have the correct file by searching for it. On the master of masters, run:</p>
<p><code>puppet lookup puppet_enterprise::puppetdb --explain</code>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>In the file, comment out the <code>puppetdb_port</code> parameter.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Complete the steps to <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/2017.3/configure_high_availability.md#forget-a-replica">forget a replica</a>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Complete the steps to <a href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/2017.3/configure_high_availability.md#provision-a-replica">provision a replica</a>.</p>
</li>
</ol>
