# Improve MCollective stability by removing unneeded logrotate configuration  in Puppet Enterprise
<p>Important: Puppet Enterprise 2018.1 was the last release to support Marionette Collective, also known as MCollective. Future releases of PE will not include MCollective. </p>
<p>To prepare for these changes, <a title="Migrate MCollective" href="https://github.com/puppetlabs/docs-archive/blob/main/pe/2018.1/migrating_from_mcollective_to_orchestrator.md">migrate your MCollective work to Puppet orchestrator</a> to automate tasks and create consistent, repeatable administrative processes. Use orchestrator to automate your workflows and take advantage of its integration with Puppet Enterprise console and commands, APIs, role-based access control, and event tracking.</p>
<hr>
<p>The <code>puppet-agent</code> packages for Linux include a logrotate configuration for MCollective that restarts the agent service as part of the rotation. Using logrotate is not required, since MCollective handles log rotation on its own. When logrotate runs on a large number of Linux nodes simultaneously, the service restart disrupts all in process MCollective operations, and creates a thundering herd of MCollective re-connections. You can improve MCollective’s stability by removing the logrotate configuration from the agent.</p>
<h3 id="version-and-installation-information">Version and installation information</h3>
<p><strong>PE version:</strong> Affects PE versions earlier than 2016.4.11, 2016.5, and 2017.1 to 2017.3.5.<br>Resolved in PE 2016.4.11, 2017.3.6, and 2018.1.</p>
<p><strong>OS:</strong> Linux</p>
<h3 id="solution">Solution</h3>
<p>You can fix this issue by running a manifest on each node running MCollective.</p>
<p>On each node running MCollective:</p>
<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li>
<p>Create a manifest named <code>mco_remove_logrotate.pp</code> with the following contents:</p>
<pre>if ($::facts['kernel'] == "linux") {
  # An exec is used to avoid failures when logrotate is not installed.
  exec {'Remove MCollective logrotate configuration':
    command =&gt; '/bin/rm /etc/logrotate.d/mcollective',
    onlyif  =&gt; '/bin/test -s /etc/logrotate.d/mcollective',
  }
}</pre>
</li>
<li>
<p>Apply the manifest by running <code>puppet apply mco_remove_logrotate.pp</code></p>
</li>
</ol>
