---
layout: default
title: "Managing code with r10k"
canonical: "/pe/latest/r10k.html"
description: "About r10k, a tool for managing code with Puppet."
---

[direnv]: {{puppet}}/environments.html
[repo]: ./cmgmt_control_repo.html
[config]: ./r10k_config.html
[custom]: ./r10k_custom.html
[puppetfile]: ./cmgmt_puppetfile.html
[run]: ./r10k_run.html
[reference]: ./r10k_reference.html
[repo]: ./cmgmt_control_repo.html
[code_mgr]: ./code_mgr.html

## r10k basics

r10k is a code management tool that allows you to manage your [environment][direnv] configurations (such as production, testing, and development) in a source control repository. Based on the code in your control repo branches, r10k creates environments on your master and installs and updates the modules you want in each environment.

As of PE 2015.3, we encourage you to use Code Manager, which works with r10k to automate the deployment of your code. If you use Code Manager, you won't manage or interact with r10k manually. Instead, go to the [Code Manager][code_mgr] page to begin setup. However, if you're already using r10k and aren't ready to switch to Code Manager, you can continue using r10k alone.



## Working with r10k

To manage environments with r10k:

1. [Set up a control repository for your code][repo].
2. [Create Puppetfiles for your environments][puppetfile].
3. [Configure r10k][config].
  * Optionally, [customize][custom] r10k's configuration by using Hiera.
4. [Run r10k to deploy your environments and modules][run].



We've also included a [reference][reference] of r10k subcommands.
